MISO                                               2
FERC Electric Tariff                       MODULES
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                  MODULE A
FERC Electric Tariff   COMMON TARIFF PROVISIONS
MODULES                                    30.0.0




                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              INTRODUCTION
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


          The General Provisions below shall apply to this Tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                           II
FERC Electric Tariff         GENERAL PROVISIONS
MODULES                                    30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                 1
FERC Electric Tariff                       Definitions
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                             71.0.0


   Active Transmission Constraint: Any transmission constraint for which a Resource is

          committed to avoid exceeding, or to relieve, the constraint limit.

   Actual Energy Injections: For a Generation Resource, a net Metered volume measured in MWh

          that flows into the Transmission System during the Operating Day at a specified location

          that is submitted to the Transmission Provider by a Market Participant or a Market

          Participant’s Meter Data Management Agent for each Hour of the Operating Day or, for

          an External Asynchronous Resource or Electric Storage Resource, a net Metered volume

          measured in MWh that flows into or out of (withdrawal positive, injection negative) the

          Transmission System during the Operating Day at a specified location that is submitted to

          the Transmission Provider by a Market Participant or a Market Participant’s Meter Data

          Management Agent for each Hour of the Operating Day. For a Demand Response

          Resource-Type I, or for a Demand Response Resource-Type II, or an EDR resource, a

          calculated volume in MWh that is equal to the amount as calculated or Metered according

          to the specifications and protocols in the Measurement and Verification Procedures. The

          Actual Energy Injection of the Demand Response Resource is calculated by the

          Transmission Provider based on the meter data submitted by a Market Participant or a

          Market Participant's Meter Data Management Agent for each Hour of the Operating Day

          that is used for Settlement purposes. Given the appropriate qualification, Demand

          Response Resources-Type I Resources can provide the following products: Energy,

          Contingency Reserve, and capacity under Module E.

   Actual Energy Withdrawal: For a Load Zone where one or more Demand Response Resources

          Type I are committed for Energy and/or are offered for Contingency Reserve, where one




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                          71.0.0


          or more Demand Response Resource Type II are committed during a specific Hour, or

          where an EDR resource has reduced Load, a calculated volume in MWh that flows out of

          the Transmission System during the Operating Day at a specified location that is equal to

          the time-weighted average of the Metered volume of the Load Zone for that Hour plus

          Actual Energy Injections within the Load Zone for the Demand Response Resources and

          EDR resources. For all other Load Zones, a Metered volume measured in MWh that

          flows out of the Transmission System during the Operating Day at a specified location.

          The Load Zone Metered volume in MWh that flows out of the Transmission System

          during the Operating Day, used for the calculation of the Actual Energy Withdrawal, is

          submitted to the Transmission Provider by a Market Participant or a Market Participant’s

          Meter Data Management Agent for each Hour of the Operating Day that is used for

          Settlement purposes.

   Actual Resource Response: The actual movement, in MWs, relative to Setpoint Instructions for

          a Resource within a Dispatch Interval.

   Additional Regulating Mileage: Any Regulating Mileage Target for a Resource in a Dispatch

          Interval beyond the amount considered for the Dispatch Interval during the market

          clearing.

   Adjusted Financial Transmission Rights Capability: The expected available transmission

          capacity in the FTR Auction, respecting the Simultaneous Feasibility Test, over the

          Transmission Provider Region during: (1) a given Month, less FTRs held by existing

          FTR Holders; or (2) a Season, less FTRs held by existing FTR Holders and baseloading

          assumptions.




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                   1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                              71.0.0


   Affected Participant: A Market Participant, a person that engages in Market Activities or a

          person that takes any other service under the Tariff that has provided to the Transmission

          Provider, Confidential Information that is requested by, or is disclosed to, an Authorized

          Requestor under a Non-Disclosure Agreement.

   Affiliate: With respect to a person or entity, any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, joint

          venture, association, joint stock company, trust or unincorporated organization, directly

          or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such person or

          entity.

   Agency Agreement: The agreement that is Appendix G of the ISO Agreement.

   Aggregate Annual Transmission Revenue Requirement (Aggregate ATRR): The annual

          transmission revenue requirement calculated by combining the annual transmission

          revenue requirements of each individual RFP Respondent and each individual Proposal

          Participant identified in a Proposal, all as provided in Section VIII.D.4.3 of Attachment

          FF of the Tariff.

   Aggregate Power Supply Curve: The combined Energy Offer curves for all Resources,

          excluding DRRs, which is the capacity from all such resources at each price offered.

   Aggregate Price Node (APNode): An aggregation of Elemental Pricing Nodes whose LMP is

          calculated as the sum of the products of the LMP at each Elemental Pricing Node defined

          in the Aggregate Price Node and the associated pre-established normalized weighting

          factors for the Elemental Pricing Node.

   Aggregator of Retail Customers (ARC): A Market Participant that represents demand response

          on behalf of one or more eligible retail customers, for which the participant is not such




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                           71.0.0


          customers’ LSE, and intends to offer demand response directly into the Transmission

          Provider’s Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, as a Planning Resource or as an EDR

          resource.

   Allowable ZRC Offer Costs: Costs associated with a Planning Resource reflected in its ZRC

          Offer, or the CONE, or facility-specific Reference Level costs, considered in determining

          ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency Credits for a Planning Year.

   Allowance Level: A description of the mitigation measure described in Module D which allows

          a Market Participant that is an LSE or represents an LSE, to purchase or schedule a

          specified portion of its Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve requirements in the Real Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   Alternate Selected Developer(s): Shall be RFP Respondent(s) who is/are not chosen as the

          Selected Developer(s) and whose Proposal is selected to be the alternate Proposal by the

          Competitive Transmission Executive Committee, pursuant to Attachment FF of the

          Tariff, for implementation if the Selected Developer fails to execute or request an

          unexecuted filing of the Selected Developer Agreement and provide the required Project

          Financial Security within the timeframe provided in Attachment FF Section VIII.H. The

          Alternate Selected Developer(s) shall not be the same entity or entities that have been

          chosen as the Selected Developer(s).

   Ancillary Services: Those services that are necessary to support Capacity and the transmission

          of Energy from Resources to Loads while maintaining reliable operation of the

          Transmission System in accordance with Good Utility Practice.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                   1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                              71.0.0


   Annual ARR Allocation: The procedure used by the Transmission Provider annually to allocate

          ARRs and MTPS ARRs.

   Annual ARR Registration: The annual process for registering ARR Entitlements and MTPS

          ARR Entitlements.

   Applicable Laws and Regulations: All duly promulgated applicable federal, state and local

          laws, regulations, rules, ordinances, codes, decrees, judgments, directives, or judicial or

          administrative orders, permits and other duly authorized actions of any Governmental

          Authority having jurisdiction over the Parties, their respective facilities and/or the

          respective services they provide.

   Applicable Reliability Standards: Reliability Standards approved by the Federal Energy

          Regulatory Commission (FERC) under Section 215 of the Federal Power Act relating to

          operation of the Transmission Provider in carrying out its Reliability Coordinator,

          Balancing Authority, Market Operator, Transmission Service Provider, and Planning

          Coordinator functions. In addition to FERC approved standards, any regional reliability

          criteria and/or standards relating to operation of the Transmission Provider in carrying

          out the functions listed above.

   Applicant: An entity desiring to hold FTRs, take Transmission Service, engage in Market

          Activities or take any other service under this Tariff, or become a Market Participant,

          Transmission Customer or Coordination Customer under this Tariff.

   Application: A request by an Eligible Customer for Transmission Service pursuant to the

          provisions of this Tariff.

   ARR Delivery Point: The ARR Zone or Interface specified in an ARR where Transmission




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                          71.0.0


          Service terminates.

   ARR Entitlement(s): Right to nominate and be allocated ARRs based on transmission usage,

          upgrades or other basis.

   ARR Holder(s): The Market Participant that receives ARRs, or the Transmission Provider to the

          extent it receives ARRs, through the Annual ARR Allocation.

   ARR Obligation: The financial credit or obligation resulting from the difference between the

          clearing prices from the annual FTR Auction at the ARR Delivery Point and the clearing

          prices at the ARR Receipt Point.

   ARR Receipt Point: The transaction receipt point specified in an ARR.

   ARR Settled Exposure: The potential exposure to non-payment associated with ARRs that have

          been settled.

   ARR Stage Factors: The factors that determine the nomination caps in Stage 1A and Stage 1B

          of the ARR allocation procedure.

   ARR Term: The term specified in the ARR.

   ARR Transactions Not Yet Settled: The value of the ARRs based on the clearing price(s)

          established as a result of the most recent annual FTR Auction which have not been

          settled.

   ARR Zone(s): Geographic areas defined for the purpose of allocating ARRs based upon

          locations where a Market Participant serves Load.

   Area Control Error (ACE): The instantaneous difference between Net Actual Interchange and

          Net Scheduled Interchange, taking into account the effects of frequency bias, including a

          correction for meter error, expressed in MW.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                 1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                            71.0.0


   Asset Owner: An entity identified by a Market Participant through the Transmission Provider

          registration process that is eligible to be represented by the Market Participant in Market

          Activities.

   Attachment Y Notice: A completed form, entitled “Attachment Y Notification of

          Generator/SCU/Pseudo-tied Out Generator Change of Status, Including Notification of

          Rescission,” provided to the Transmission Provider to Suspend all or any portion of a

          resource by an owner of a Generation Resource, Synchronous Condenser Unit (SCU), or

          a Generator that is directly interconnected to the Transmission System but is Pseudo-tied

          out of the Transmission Provider’s Balancing Authority Area or to rescind such a

          notification.

   Attachment Y Conversion Period: The period between the date of submission of the Attachment

          Y Notice and the June 1st start of the third full Planning Year following the submittal of

          the Attachment Y Notice in which the owner of a Generation Resource or SCU may elect

          to convert an Attachment Y Notice to a notice of retirement by waiving rescission and

          modification rights and committing to retirement of the asset.

   Auction Clearing Price (ACP): The price, expressed in $/MW-day, associated with the MW

          quantity that clears in the Planning Resource Auction for a given LRZ or ERZ for a

          Season for the applicable Planning Year.

   Auction Revenue Rights (ARR): Entitlements to a share of the revenues generated in the annual

          FTR Auction.

   Authorized Agency: (i) a State public utility commission, including the Council of the City of

          New Orleans, within the geographic limits of the Transmission Provider Region that




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                   1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                              71.0.0


          regulates the distribution or supply of electricity to retail customers or is legally charged

          with monitoring the operation of wholesale or retail markets serving retail suppliers or

          customers within its State; (ii) the Organization of MISO States or any successor

          organization, formed to act as a regional state committee within the Transmission

          Provider Region; or (iii) a state agency, including the Council of the City of New

          Orleans, that has both access to documents in the possession of a state public utility

          commission, including the Council of the City of New Orleans, pursuant to state statute

          and the ability to protect those documents in accordance with the Non Disclosure

          Agreement.

   Authorized Requestor: A person who has executed a Non Disclosure Agreement, and is

          authorized by an Authorized Agency to receive and discuss Confidential Information.

          Authorized Requestors may include State public utility commissioners, State commission

          staff, attorneys representing an Authorized Agency, and employees, consultants and/or

          contractors directly employed by an Authorized Agency, provided, however, that

          consultants or contractors may not initiate requests for Confidential Information from the

          Transmission Provider or the IMM.

   Automatic Generation Control (AGC): The automated process of addressing imbalances in

          supply and demand by sending to Resources, at least every six (6) seconds, signals to

          either raise or lower output to correct for instantaneous changes in Load and generation,

          when the Transmission Provider’s Area Control Error calculation indicates an imbalance

          between supply and demand.

   Available Max Emergency Resource (AME Resource): A Resource with a Commitment Status




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - A
MODULES                                                                                          71.0.0


          of Emergency or an Electric Storage Resource with a Commitment Status of Emergency

          Charge or Emergency Discharge.

   Available Non-FTR Financial Security: For Credit purposes, any Financial Security held in

          excess of alternative capitalization requirements and Total FTR Obligations and available

          for securing Non-FTR Potential Exposure.

   Available Transfer Capability: The maximum amount of additional Energy that may be carried

          by the Transmission System or by the transmission systems of Coordination Customers

          under current or projected operating conditions.




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                1.B
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - B
MODULES                                                                                           55.0.0


   Balancing Authority: The responsible entity that integrates Resource plans ahead of time,

          maintains Load-generation balance within a Balancing Authority Area and supports the

          Eastern Interconnection frequency in real time.

   Balancing Authority Agreement: The “Agreement Between Midwest ISO and Midwest ISO

          Balancing Authorities Relating to Implementation of the TEMT” which was filed

          October 5, 2004 in Docket Nos. ER04-691-002 and EL02-104-002, as may be amended

          from time to time, and is designated as FERC Electric Tariff, Rate Schedule No. 3.

   Balancing Authority Area: An electric power system or combination of electric power systems

          bounded by interconnection metering and telemetering to which a common generation

          control scheme is applied within the Balancing Authority in order to: (i) match the

          power output of the Generation Resources within the electric power system(s) and

          Energy delivered from or to entities outside the electric power system(s), with the

          demand (including losses) within the electric power system(s); (ii) maintain scheduled

          Interchange with other Balancing Authority Areas, within the limits of Good Utility

          Practice; (iii) maintain the frequency of the electric power system(s) within reasonable

          limits in accordance with Good Utility Practice and Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Base Penalty Charge: A base sanction that is assessed by the Independent Market Monitor

          against a Market Participant that is found to have engaged in conduct that is not permitted

          under the Tariff.

   Baseline Reliability Projects: Network Upgrades identified in the MTEP as required to ensure

          the Transmission System is in compliance with applicable national Electric Reliability

          Organization reliability standards and reliability standards adopted by Regional Entities




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                      1.B
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           Definitions - B
MODULES                                                                                                 55.0.0


          and applicable to the Transmission Provider’s Transmission Owners' planning criteria

          filed with federal, state, or local regulatory authorities, and applicable federal, state and

          local system planning and operating reliability criteria. Baseline Reliability Projects

          include projects of 100kV voltage class or above needed to maintain reliability while

          accommodating the ongoing needs of existing Transmission Customers.

   Baseline Reliability Study: A study performed by the Transmission Provider as part of the

          MTEP development to determine whether the Transmission System is in compliance with

          applicable national Electric Reliability Organization reliability standards and reliability

          standards adopted by Regional Entities and applicable to the Transmission Provider’s or

          Transmission Owners' planning criteria filed with federal, state, or local regulatory

          authorities, and applicable federal, state and local system planning and operating

          reliability criteria, the result of which is the identification of Baseline Reliability Projects.

   Baseload Reserved Source Point (RSP): The Baseload Reserved Source Point for use in the

          ARR allocation process.

   Baseload Reserved Source Set (BRSS): The Baseload Supply Resources that have met the

          Resource Qualification Requirements for inclusion as a Reserved Source Point for a

          given ARR Zone.

   Baseload Supply Resource(s): Generation Resource associated with serving a Market

          Participant’s Baseload Usage and that is used for Baseload Reserved Source Point

          calculations.

   Baseload Usage: Transmission usage that is fifty percent (50%) of Peak Usage of Network

          Load. For Market Participants utilizing Point-To-Point Transmission Service, fifty




                                                                                  Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                   1.B
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - B
MODULES                                                                                              55.0.0


          percent (50%) of the Point-To-Point Transmission Service MW amount will be assumed

          to be Baseload Usage. However, this assumption will not require an LSE to pay multiple

          Transmission Service charges for Loads included in the LSE’s Baseload Usage.

   Behind the Meter Generation (BTMG): Generation resources used to serve wholesale or retail

          load located behind a CPNode that are not included in the Transmission Provider’s

          Setpoint Instructions and in some cases can also be deliverable to Load located within the

          Transmission Provider Region using either Network Integration, Point-To-Point

          Transmission Service or transmission service pursuant to a Grandfathered Agreement.

          These resources have an obligation to be made available during Emergencies.

   Bid: A request to purchase Energy in the Day Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market,

          including Demand Bids, Price Sensitive Demand Bids, and Fixed Interchange Schedule

          Export Schedules, Dispatchable Interchange Schedule Export Schedules, and Virtual

          Bids, at a specified location, quantity, and time period, that is duly submitted to the

          Transmission Provider pursuant to this Tariff and the Business Practices Manuals.

   Bi-Directional Ramp Rate Curve: The MW/minute ramp rate curve, that may include up to ten

          (10) linear segments at which a Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource -

          Type II, Electric Storage Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource can

          respond to either increasing or decreasing Setpoint Instructions.

   Bilateral Transaction Schedule: A schedule associated with a Bilateral Transaction.

   Bilateral Transactions: Interchange Schedules, Dynamic Interchange Schedules, Financial

          Schedules and GFA Schedules.

   Billing Agent: An entity designated by a Market Participant as the entity to receive from, or




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                    1.B
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - B
MODULES                                                                                               55.0.0


          forward payment to, the Transmission Provider on the Market Participant’s Settlement

          Statements. The Market Participant shall remain liable for all obligations issued to it in

          the Settlement Statements.

   Binding Settlement Zone: Any Reserve Zone with a Market Clearing Price for Regulating

          Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, or Short-Term Reserve, as applicable,

          derived in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market that has any non-zero Market Clearing Price Zonal

          Terms for Operating Reserves or Short-Term Reserve.

   Binding Transmission Constraints: A transmission constraint that causes a change in the

          dispatch or commitment of one or more Electric Facilities to avoid exceeding, or to

          relieve, the constraint limit.

   Blackstart Equipment: The equipment that is necessary to make a generation unit, Electric

          Storage Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource a Blackstart Unit capable

          of reliably providing Blackstart Service.

   Blackstart Service: The process used by the Transmission Operator, Load Serving Entities, and

          Generator operators to reenergize to a fully operational state the entire transmission

          network and the remainder of the delivery system to normal operation. This process

          includes systematic start up of Blackstart Units via Blackstart Equipment, energizing

          transmission to critical facilities such as larger generating units, energizing to the largest

          generators to facilitate the restoration of system loads.

   Blackstart System Restoration Plan: The plan developed by the Transmission Provider acting

          in its capacity as the Reliability Coordinator, to coordinate the system restoration plans




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                   1.B
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - B
MODULES                                                                                              55.0.0


          developed by the individual Transmission Operators to re-energize the Transmission

          System following a system-wide blackout.

   Blackstart Unit: A generation unit, Electric Storage Resource, or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource that has Blackstart Equipment attached to it or is otherwise

          configured to allow the unit to be started without assistance form any other resource.

   Blackstart Unit Owner: An entity that either: (1) owns and controls the output of, or operates a

          Blackstart Unit; or (2) has contractual rights to direct the operation of a Blackstart Unit

          and to receive the compensation provided for under Schedule 33 of the Tariff.

   Border External Resource: An External Resource that: (i) has direct interconnection facilities to

          a substation that contains the terminal of a transmission line under the Transmission

          Provider’s functional control; (ii) will schedule in response to notification by the

          Transmission Provider during a declared Energy Emergency solely from unit(s)

          connected to such substation; and, (iii) whose Capacity offered into MISO may be

          accommodated on those transmission line(s) under the Transmission Provider’s

          functional control.

   Branch Facility: A facility located within a pricing Zone having a defined Line Outage

          Distribution Factor.

   Broad Constrained Area: An electrical area in the Transmission Provider Region within which

          one or more Binding Transmission Constraints, or binding Post Reserve Deployment

          Constraints (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints) exist, or binding Sub-

          Regional Power Balance Constraints into the Second Planning Area exist.

   Bulk Electric System: The electrical Generation Resources, transmission lines, interconnections




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.B
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - B
MODULES                                                                                             55.0.0


          with neighboring systems, and associated equipment, generally operated at voltages of

          100 kV or higher as further defined by the applicable Regional Entity.

   Bundled Load: The aggregate usage by customers who purchase electric services as a single

          service or customers who purchase electric services under a retail tariff rate schedule that

          includes Energy and delivery components, as distinguished from customers who purchase

          Transmission Service as a separate service.

   Bus: A specific electrical location within the Transmission System and/or within other

          transmission systems within the Eastern Interconnection modeled in the Network Model.

   Business Day: A day in which the Federal Reserve System is open for business.

   Business Practices Manuals: The instructions, rules, policies, procedures and guidelines

          established by the Transmission Provider for the operation, planning, accounting and

          settlement requirements of the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                 1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


   Calculated Demand Response Resource-Type I Output: The hourly average Actual Energy

          Injection for each associated Demand Response Resource – Type I for the Hour for the

          purposes of assessing Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges.

   Calculated Demand Response Resource-Type II Output: (i) For a DRR-Type II Resource that

          is providing Regulating Service, the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections; or (ii)

          For a DRR-Type II Resource that is not providing Regulation Service, the average

          Dispatch Target for Energy for the DRR-Type II Resource, expressed in MW and scaled

          by Actual Energy Injection.

   Calendar Day: Any day of the week, including Saturday, Sunday or a Federal holiday.

   Candidate ARR (CARR): ARR nominations submitted by Market Participants to be considered

          throughout the Annual ARR Allocation process.

   Candidate Baseload ARR: Candidate ARR rights equal to each Market Participant’s Baseload

          Usage in an ARR Zone.

   Candidate Peak ARR: Candidate ARR rights equal to each Market Participant’s Peak Usage in

          an ARR Zone.

   Candidate MTPS ARR: MTPS ARR nominations submitted by the Transmission Provider to be

          considered during the Annual ARR Allocation process.

   Capacity: The instantaneous rate at which Energy can be delivered, received or transferred,

          including Energy associated with Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve, measured in MW.

   Capacity Deficiency Charge: A charge that is assessed to an LSE that has provided notification

          prior to the Planning Resource Auction that it will meet its Initial PRMR in part or in




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


          whole by paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge so that the Transmission Provider does

          not clear associated Zonal Resource Credits (ZRC) for the associated Initial PRMR

          through the PRA process.

   Capacity Export Limit (CEL): The amount of Planning Resources in MWs for an LRZ or ERZ

          determined by the Transmission Provider that can be reliably exported from that LRZ or

          ERZ for each Season.

   Capacity Import Limit (CIL): The amount of Planning Resources in MWs for an LRZ

          determined by the Transmission Provider that can be reliably imported into that LRZ for

          each Season.

   Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge: The charge assessed to a Market Participant

          for failing to replace ZRCs that were designated for RAR and did not fulfill their

          performance obligations as set forth in Module E-1.

   Capacity Resources: The Generation Resources, Demand Response Resource- Type I, Demand

          Response Resource-Type II, Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, External Resources,

          Intermittent Generation, or Electric Storage Resources that are available to meet Demand.

   Carved Out GFA(s): Any Grandfathered Agreement(s) that the Commission has identified as

          “carved out” pursuant to Appendix B of the Commission’s September 16, 2004 order,

          Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., 108 FERC ¶ 61,236 (2004) or

          that meet the criteria in Section 38.8.3(A).b, and set forth in Attachment P to this Tariff,

          as that Attachment may be amended from time to time.

   Cash Collateral Agreement: A Credit Support Document taking the form found in Exhibit III of

          Attachment L of this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                    1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                               82.0.0


   Cash Deposit: Cash collateral provided to Transmission Provider to secure Applicant’s and/or

          Tariff Customer’s performance under the terms and conditions of Transmission

          Provider’s Tariff, and/or other agreements.

   Catastrophic Generator Outage: A forced outage that results in a unit being, or reasonably

          expected to be unavailable for a minimum of six (6) continuous months, which is not the

          result of a planned maintenance outage.

   Category A Tariff Customer: A Tariff Customer who grants a continuing first-priority security

          interest to the Transmission Provider in all right, title and interest in any and all accounts

          receivable and other rights of payment of the Tariff Customer for goods and services

          provided under, or otherwise arising under, pursuant to or in connection with, the Tariff

          and/or any of the Agreements.

   Category B Tariff Customer: Any Tariff Customer who does not grant a Receivable Security

          Interest to the Transmission Provider.

   Change in Total System Cost: The net change in variable operational costs, which include fuel,

          variable O&M, variable environmental costs, and other variable costs as mutually agreed

          upon by the Transmission Provider and the Market Participant, measured in dollars as a

          result of changing the output of one or more units in response to a redispatch request

          from the Transmission Provider.

   Charge: The withdrawal of energy from the Transmission System by an Electric Storage

          Resource for the purpose of storing the energy for injection back into the Transmission

          System at a later time.

   Cleared Zonal Resource Credits (Cleared ZRCs): Zonal Resource Credits that have cleared the




                                                                             Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                           82.0.0


          Planning Resource Auction, were used in a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan, were used in

          a Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out, or are currently being used to replace ZRCs.

   Coincident Peak Demand: The Demand in MWs, for an LSE and/or EDC, that occurs

          coincident to the peak Demand for each Season in the Transmission Provider Region,

          where all Demand has been augmented to include any known reductions in Demand

          related to LMRs.

   Co-located Resources: Two or more Generators located behind the same point of

          interconnection that participate separately in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets

          and share an Interconnection Service Limit.

   Combined Reliability Systems: The Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities

          and all other transmission facilities for which the Transmission Provider performs

          Reliability Coordination Services under Part I of Module F.

   Commercial Model: A presentation of the relationships between Market Participants and their

          Resources, Commercial Pricing Nodes and the Network Model in the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets.

   Commercial Operation Date: Shall have the meaning set forth in Attachment X of this Tariff.

   Commercial Pricing Node (CPNode): An Elemental Pricing Node or an Aggregate Price Node

          in the Commercial Model used to schedule and settle Market Activities. Commercial

          Pricing Nodes include Resources, Hubs, Load Zones and/or Interfaces.

   Commercially Significant Voltage and Local Reliability Issue: Transmission System voltage or

          other local reliability concerns that result in Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments.

          These issues are designated for reasons including, but not limited to, occurrence




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                           82.0.0


          frequency, monetary impact, or other criteria as defined in Schedule 44. A Local

          Balancing Authority or an interested Market Participant may request that the

          Transmission Provider evaluate a Voltage and Local Reliability Issue for designation as

          commercially significant.

   Commission: The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, also known as FERC, or its

          successor.

   Commitment Status: A specification submitted by a Market Participant in its Generation Offer,

          External Asynchronous Resource Offer, Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer,

          Demand Response Resource-Type II Offer, or Electric Storage Resource Offer for each

          Hour to indicate whether or how the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the

          Resource or deploy the Resource for Operating Reserves for the Hour.

   Common Bus: A single Bus to which two or more Resources are connected in an electrically

          equivalent manner where such Resources are treated as a single Resource for compliance

          monitoring purposes.

   Common Information Model (CIM): The format adopted by the NERC Data Exchange

          Working Group that will be used by the Congestion Management Customer and the

          Transmission Provider to exchange Energy Management System models once a year.

   Comparable FTRs: FTRs that are identical in all material respects except for the quantity of

          MW specified.

   Competitive Developer Qualification Process: The process utilized to certify Qualified

          Transmission Developers pursuant to Section VIII.B of Attachment FF of the Tariff.

   Competitive Developer Selection Process: The process utilized to solicit Proposals, evaluate




                                                                         Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


          Proposals, and designating a Selected Proposal and Selected Developer(s) pursuant to

          Section VIII of Attachment FF of the Tariff.

   Competitive Substation Facility: A transmission substation facility contained within an Eligible

          Project that is subject to the Competitive Developer Selection Process in accordance with

          Section VIII.A of Attachment FF of the Tariff.

   Competitive Transmission Executive Committee: A committee consisting of three (3) or more

          executive staff of the Transmission Provider, including at least one (1) officer, that is

          charged with overseeing all Transmission Provider staff and consultants involved in

          evaluating Transmission Developer Applications and Proposals in response to a posted

          Request for Proposal. The Competitive Transmission Executive Committee will have

          exclusive and final decision-making authority over: (i) the certification and termination

          of Qualified Transmission Developers; and (ii) the evaluation and selection of Proposals,

          resulting in designating Selected Developers. The Competitive Transmission Executive

          Committee shall possess the specific technical, financial, and regulatory expertise

          necessary for evaluation of Transmission Developer Applications and Proposals.

   Competitive Transmission Facility: A Competitive Substation Facility or Competitive

          Transmission Line Facility.

   Competitive Transmission Line Facility: A transmission line facility contained within an

          Eligible Project that is subject to the Competitive Developer Selection Process in

          accordance with Section VIII.A of Attachment FF of the Tariff.

   Competitive Transmission Process: The process utilized to certify Qualified Transmission

          Developers, identify Competitive Transmission Projects, solicit Proposals, evaluate




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                             82.0.0


          Proposals, and designating a Selected Proposal and Selected Developer(s) pursuant to

          Section VIII of Attachment FF of the Tariff. The Competitive Transmission Process

          includes the Competitive Developer Qualification Process and Competitive Developer

          Selection Process.

   Competitive Transmission Project: The Competitive Transmission Facilities contained within

          an Eligible Project.

   Competitively Sensitive Information: Information that is not public and the unauthorized

          disclosure of which could have anti-competitive effects, provide a competitor with an

          unfair or improper competitive advantage, or unfairly or improperly result in competitive

          harm, detriment, prejudice, disadvantage or injury to the legitimate proprietary rights,

          business or commercial interests, market position, or ability to bargain freely, of the

          lawful owners, possessors or users of such information.

   Completed Application: An Application that satisfies all of the information and other

          requirements of the Tariff, including any required deposit.

   Composite Credit Score: A composite numerical score scaled from 1.00 to 6.99, representing

          the sum of the Qualitative and Quantitative score as calculated by the Transmission

          Provider’s credit scoring model in Attachment L of this Tariff.

   Confidential Information: Any proprietary or commercially or competitively sensitive

          information, trade secret or information regarding a plan, specification, pattern,

          procedure, design, device, list, concept, policy or compilation relating to the present or

          planned business of a Transmission Customer, Market Participant, or other user, which is

          designated as confidential by the entity supplying the information, whether conveyed




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


          orally, electronically, in writing, through inspection, or otherwise, that is received by the

          Transmission Provider and is not disclosed except under the terms of a Confidential

          Information policy.

   Congestion Management Customer: Any entity taking Interconnected Operations and

          Congestion Management Service under Part II of Module F.

   Congestion Management Process (CMP): The process described in Attachment LL of the

          Tariff.

   Constraint Contribution Factor: Factor that represents the impact that an incremental Actual

          Energy Injection or Actual Energy Withdrawal of one MW has on a given Active

          Transmission Constraint.

   Constraint Generation Shift Factor Cutoff: A Generation Shift Factor level defined for each

          transmission constraint that determines the generating units to be included in a Broad

          Constrained Area, Narrow Constrained Area or Dynamic NCA associated with the

          constraint. Generation Resources with a Generation Shift Factor whose absolute value is

          greater than the Constraint Generation Shift Factor Cutoff are included in the Broad

          Constrained Area, Narrow Constrained Area or Dynamic NCA.

   Constraint Management Charge Allocation Factor: A factor that is used to apportion Real-

          Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour between (i) the Real-Time

          Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge and (ii) the Real-Time

          Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge and the Real-

          Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge.

   Contingency Reserve: Spinning Reserve and Supplemental Reserve provided by Resources




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


          available to the Transmission Provider to use in the event of a system contingency as

          specified in Schedule 5-Spinning Reserve and Schedule 6– Supplemental Reserve of this

          Tariff.

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charge: A charge assessed to any Resource that

          fails to achieve in a Contingency Reserve Deployment Period at least one hundred

          percent (100%) of the Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction target.

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction: An instruction issued by the Transmission

          Provider to Resources with cleared Contingency Reserve to deploy a specific MW

          quantity of cleared Contingency Reserve as communicated via Setpoint Instructions or

          other electronic means.

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Period: The period of time the Resource has to deploy

          Contingency Reserve following the issuance of a Contingency Reserve Deployment

          Instruction that is equal to ten minutes.

   Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: The maximum price permitted for a Spinning Reserve

          Offer, an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer, an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer

          or a Supplemental Reserve Offer in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Continuing Error: A continuing software, system or other execution that is inconsistent with

          the Tariff.

   Control: The possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or

          policies of a person or an entity. A voting interest of ten percent (10%) or more shall

          create a rebuttable presumption of Control.

   Controllable Devices: Devices that may include phase shifters, DC lines, and back-to-back




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                             82.0.0


          AC/DC converters.

   Co-optimized Zonal Contingency Reserve Requirement: The minimum amount of Contingency

          Reserve the Transmission Provider needs to procure within a Reserve Zone as determined

          based upon co-optimization with Post Reserve Deployment Constraints.

   Co-optimized Zonal Operating Reserve Requirement: The sum of the Co-optimized Zonal

          Contingency Reserve Requirement and Co-optimized Zonal Regulating Reserve

          Requirement.

   Co-optimized Zonal Regulating Reserve Requirement: The minimum amount of Regulating

          Reserve the Transmission Provider needs to procure within a Reserve Zone as determined

          based upon co-optimization with Post Reserve Deployment Constraints.

   Co-optimized Zonal Short-Term Reserve Requirement: The minimum amount of Short-Term

          Reserve the Transmission Provider needs to procure within a Reserve Zone as determined

          based upon co-optimization with Post Reserve Deployment Constraints.

   Co-optimized Zonal Spinning Reserve Requirement: The minimum amount of Spinning

          Reserve the Transmission Provider needs to procure within a Reserve Zone as determined

          based upon co-optimization with Post Reserve Deployment Constraints.

   Coordinated Flowgate: A Flowgate that is subject to the Transmission Provider’s or

          Coordination Customer’s operational control and through which flows are affected by

          transmission over transmission facilities within its operational control, or with respect to

          which Transmission Provider serves as a Reliability Authority.

   Coordinated Transaction Schedule: An Interchange Schedule to purchase Energy in the Real-

          Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market from a Source Point in either the MISO




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


          Balancing Authority Area or PJM Balancing Authority Area and sell it at a Sink Point in

          the other balancing authority area that is cleared if the forecasted LMP at the Sink Point

          minus the forecasted LMP at the Source Point is greater than or equal to the dollar value

          specified in the bid associated with the Interchange Schedule.

   Coordinating Owner: Any entity that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission but

          participating in the ISO through the execution of a coordination agreement which

          includes provisions for the elimination of rate pancaking. The terms and provisions of a

          Coordinating Owner’s coordination agreement shall supersede the similar terms and

          provisions of this Tariff where applicable.

   Coordination Customer: Any customer taking Coordination Services from the Transmission

          Provider pursuant to Module F of the Tariff. The term Coordination Customer includes:

          Reliability Coordination Customer, and Congestion Management Customer.

   Coordination Services: The services provided by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Module

          F of the Tariff. Coordination Services include Reliability Coordination Service and

          Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service.

   Corporate Guaranty: A legal document taking the form found in Exhibit I of Attachment L of

          this Tariff used by an Affiliate of an Applicant and/or Tariff Customer that guarantees the

          obligations of such Applicant or Tariff Customer.

   Cost Allocation Zone: The zones identified in Attachment WW of this Tariff used for allocating

          the costs of Market Efficiency Projects.

   Cost of Congestion: The Marginal Congestion Component of LMP at the sink minus the

          Marginal Congestion Component of LMP at the source.




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


   Cost of Losses: Marginal Losses Component of LMP at the sink minus the Marginal Losses

          Component of LMP at the source.

   Cost of New Entry (CONE): The capital, operating, financial and other costs of acquiring a new

          Generation Resource within the Transmission Provider Region for any designated LRZ.

   Council of the City of New Orleans (CNO): The governmental body with the power of

          supervision, regulation, and control over public utilities providing service within the City

          of New Orleans, i.e., Entergy New Orleans, pursuant to the Constitution of the State of

          Louisiana and the Home Rule Charter of the City of New Orleans. CNO shall have all

          the rights and responsibilities granted herein to states, state public utility commissions,

          state agencies, and State Regulatory Authorities.

   Counterflow ARR: ARR allocated during the LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage of an

          Annual ARR Allocation based on a Counterflow ARR Entitlement.

   Counterflow ARR Entitlement: Any Stage 1A eligible ARR Entitlement’s portion that was not

          nominated in Stage 1A of a Market Participant’s year 1 Annual ARR Allocation but that

          the Transmission Provider deems to provide counterflow necessary to enable curtailed

          Stage 1A CARRs to be restored (fully or partly) during the LTTR Restoration and

          Termination Stage of an Annual ARR Allocation.

   Credit and Security Agreement: A Credit Support Document taking the form found in Exhibit

          V of Attachment L of this Tariff.

   Credit Policy: The Transmission Provider’s creditworthiness requirements and credit evaluation

          procedures as contained in Attachment L of this Tariff.

   Credit Support Documents: Any agreement or instrument in any way guaranteeing or securing




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.C
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - C
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


          any or all of a Tariff Customer’s obligations under this Tariff (including, without

          limitation, the Credit Policy), any agreement entered into under, pursuant to, or in

          connection with this Tariff or any agreement entered into under, pursuant to, or in

          connection with this Tariff or the Credit Policy, and/or any other agreement to which the

          Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer are parties, including, without limitation,

          any Corporate Guaranty, Cash Collateral Agreement, Letter of Credit, Credit and

          Security Agreement or agreement granting a security interest.

   Critical Energy Infrastructure Information (CEII): Confidential information described in 18

          C.F.R § 388.113(c)(1), as may be amended from time to time.

   Curtailment: A reduction in firm or non-firm Transmission Service in response to a transfer

          capability shortage as a result of system reliability conditions pursuant to Section 14.7 or

          Section 27A of this Tariff.

   Customer Load Aggregation: A Load Zone approved by the Transmission Provider for the

          purposes of submitting Bids to or scheduling into the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets and for settlement of Market Activities.

   Cyber Exigency: A suspicious electronic act or event that has the potential to compromise

          reliability within the Transmission Provider Region or other electrical facilities directly

          or indirectly connected to the Transmission System and whose severity reasonably

          requires that the Transmission Provider obtain expert assistance not normally called upon

          to counter such an electronic act or to resolve such an event.




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                         74.0.0


   Day: A twenty four (24) hour period beginning at 0000 hours EST.

   Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability

          Charge: The sum of the Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour

          attributable to Day-Ahead Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments and Real-Time

          Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour attributable to Real-Time Voltage and

          Local Reliability Commitments.

   Day-Ahead Bilateral Transaction Schedules Marginal Losses Surplus: The sum of

          Transmission Usage Charges minus the Cost of Congestion for all Bilateral Transaction

          Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Day-Ahead Commitment Period: Contiguous set of hours within the Day for which there exists

          a Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy.

   Day Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market: The forward market for purchases and

          sales of Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and

          Short-Term Reserve conducted by the Transmission Provider the Day prior to the

          Operating Day.

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Marginal Losses Surplus: The total Day-

          Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market charges for Energy purchases, minus total

          Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market payments for Energy sales, minus

          total Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market congestion payments.

   Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP: The LMP calculated through the clearing of the Day-Ahead Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market using the process defined in Schedule 29 of this Tariff.

   Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCP: The MCP for Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                               1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                          74.0.0


          Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve

          calculated through the clearing of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          using the process defined in Schedule 29 of this Tariff.

   Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP: The LMP calculated for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market using the process defined in Schedule 29A of this Tariff.

   Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP: The MCP for Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental

          Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve

          calculated for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market using the process

          defined in Schedule 29A of this Tariff.

   Day Ahead Hourly Marginal Losses Surplus: The total of the Day Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market Marginal Losses Surplus plus the Day Ahead Bilateral

          Transactions Schedules Marginal Losses Surplus.

   Day-Ahead Margin: For an Hour, the difference between the Market Participant’s accepted

          Day-Ahead Energy Offer and the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP for that interval.

   Day-Ahead Margin Assurance Payment (DAMAP): The Real-Time make-whole payment

          provided under Section 40.3.6 of this Tariff to the Resources described therein, when

          such Resources’ Day-Ahead Margins have been eroded.

   Day Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge: The sum of the Day-Ahead Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour in the Day, excluding Day-Ahead Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits associated with Voltage and Local Reliability

          Commitments, allocated to Market Participants in that Hour pro rata based upon cleared

          Bids, in that Hour.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                            74.0.0


   Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit: A Resource credit guaranteed by the

          Transmission Provider ensuring the minimum recovery of the Production Cost and

          Operating Reserve Cost of a Resource that has been committed and scheduled by the

          Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Day Ahead Schedule: A set of values consisting of one (1) value for each Hour of a single

          Operating Day for each Commercial Pricing Node as determined in the Day Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market by the Transmission Provider indicating the

          Energy MWh supply or demand financial obligation of a Market Participant at a

          Commercial Pricing Node. The Operating Reserve MW supply financial obligation of a

          Market Participant at a Commercial Pricing Node, the Up Ramp Capability MW supply

          financial obligation of a Market Participant at a Commercial Pricing Node, the Down

          Ramp Capability MW supply financial obligation of a Market Participant at a

          Commercial Pricing Node, and the Short-Term Reserve MW supply financial obligation

          of a Market Participant at a Commercial Pricing Node.

   Debt: For credit scoring purposes, the total amount of all borrowed money of an Applicant or

          Market Participant.

   Debt Adder: The percentage of long-term debt, as stated on the Tariff Customer’s most recent

          audited financial statement, that is treated as equity to determine the Unsecured Credit

          Allowance.

   Debt to Equity Ratio: For credit scoring purposes, the ratio of Debt to Equity.

   Default: The occurrence at any time, of any of the events listed in Section 7.16.1 or 7.16.2 with

          respect to such Tariff Customer, or the failure to include payment for any obligations




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                    1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                               74.0.0


          under this Tariff, if such failure is not remedied on or before the later of (i) the expiration

          of the applicable cure period as set forth in this Tariff or the applicable agreement; (ii) the

          second (2nd) Business Day after the Tariff Customer receives written notice to cure with

          respect to defaults described in Sections 7.16.1.b, d, and e; or (iii) the second (2nd)

          Business Day after the Tariff Customer receives written notice to cure with respect to

          defaults described in Section 7.16.1.a.

   Default Offer: A mitigation measure imposed by the Independent Market Monitor pursuant to

          Section 65.2 of this Tariff.

   Deferred Schedule 16 Costs: Any deferred pre-operating costs to be recovered under Schedule

          16 of this Tariff.

   Deferred Schedule 17 Costs: Any deferred pre-operating costs to be recovered under Schedule

          17 of this Tariff.

   Deficient Energy: The amount of a Generation Resource’s, Electric Storage Resource’s, or

          External Asynchronous Resource’s Actual Energy Injection at a Commercial Pricing

          Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market in a Dispatch Interval that

          is less than that Resource’s Deficient Energy Threshold or, the amount of a Demand

          Response Resource’s-Type I Calculated DRR Type I Output, as adjusted for Actual

          Energy Injection or Demand Response Resource’s-Type II Calculated DRR Type II

          Output, at a Commercial Pricing Node in the Real Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market in a Dispatch Interval that is less than that Resource’s Deficient Energy

          Threshold. For Load Modifying Resources, Deficient Energy is the amount of Energy in

          an Hour by which the resource’s Energy reduction falls short of the Scheduling




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                               1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                          74.0.0


          Instruction, provided the Energy reduced by the resource is below its applicable Deficient

          Energy Threshold.

   Deficient Energy Threshold: The minimum value of the Tolerance Band of a resource.

   Deficient Withdrawal: The amount of an Electric Storage Resource’s Actual Energy Injection at

          a Commercial Pricing Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market in a

          Dispatch Interval that is between (i) the lesser of the Excessive Energy Threshold and

          zero (0) and (ii) zero (0).

   Deliverability Benefit Zone: A group of one or more Local Resource Zones that have equal

          Auction Clearing Prices for a Season in a Planning Resource Auction resulting from the

          same auction constraint.

   Delivering Party: The entity supplying Energy to be transmitted at Point(s) of Receipt.

   Delivery Point: The Commercial Pricing Node used to determine the point of transfer between

          the buyer and the seller of the Energy specified in a Financial Schedule.

   Demand: The maximum integrated hourly sum of Load occurring over a specified period, such

          as Day, Month, Season, or Year, expressed in MWs.

   Demand Bid: A Fixed Demand Bid or Price Sensitive Demand Bid.

   Demand Curves: The Market Wide Regulating Reserve Demand Curve, the Market Wide

          Regulating and Spinning Reserve Demand Curve, the Market Wide Operating Reserve

          Demand Curve, the Market Wide Up Ramp Capability Demand Curve, the Market Wide

          Down Ramp Capability Demand Curve, and/or the Market Wide Short-Term Reserve

          Demand Curve.

   Demand Reduction Shortfall: The difference between the EDR Dispatch Instruction and the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                            74.0.0


          actual demand reduction, or zero, whichever is higher.

   Demand Reduction Tolerance: The tolerance band of demand reduction that an EDR

          Participant can make between the EDR Dispatch Instruction and actual demand reduction

          and still recover the production costs associated with the demand reduction.

   Demand Resource: Interruptible Load or Direct Control Load Management and other resources

          that can reduce Demand during Emergencies.

   Demand Resource Deferral Notice: Notice provided by a Market Participant that elects to defer

          the obligation to conduct a real power test.

   Demand Response Resource (DRR): A Demand Response Resource–Type I or Demand

          Response Resource–Type II.

   Demand Response Resource - Type I (DRR-Type I): A Resource owned by a single Load

          Serving Entity, or an ARC within the MISO Balancing Authority Area and that (i) is

          registered to participate in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, (ii) that is capable

          of supplying a specific quantity of Energy, Contingency Reserve, Short-Term Reserve or

          Capacity, at the choice of the Market Participant, to the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market through Behind the Meter Generation and/or controllable Load, (iii) is capable of

          complying with the Transmission Provider’s instructions, and (iv) has the appropriate

          metering equipment installed. Each Demand Response Resource – Type I will be

          modeled as a Commercial Pricing Node consisting of defined Elemental Pricing Nodes

          maintained and approved by the Transmission Provider that comprise injections of

          customer demand response within a single Local Balancing Authority Area for the

          purposes of scheduling, reporting Actual Energy Injections, and settling Energy,




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                           74.0.0


          Contingency Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve transactions. The Demand Response

          Resource –Type I can be modeled as aggregations of whole or portions of Elemental

          Pricing Nodes. Given the appropriate qualification, Demand Response Resource-Type I

          Resources can provide the following products: Energy, Contingency Reserve, Short-

          Term Reserve and capacity under Module E.

   Demand Response Resource-Type II (DRR-Type II): A Resource owned by a single Load

          Serving Entity, or an ARC within the MISO Balancing Authority Area and that (i) is

          registered to participate in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, (ii) is capable of

          supplying a range of Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve at the choice of the Market Participant, to the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market through Behind-The-Meter generation and/or

          controllable Load, (iii) is capable of complying with Transmission Provider’s Setpoint

          Instructions and (iv) has the appropriate metering equipment installed. Such Resources

          will be modeled and/or otherwise treated in a manner comparable as Generation

          Resources and must comply with the same Applicable Reliability Standards as

          Generation Resources. Given the appropriate qualification, Demand Response Resource-

          Type II Resources can provide the following products: Energy, Operating Reserve, Up

          Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, Short-Term Reserve, and/or capacity under

          Module E, provided that a storage Resource that registers as a Demand Response

          Resource – Type II shall not be eligible to provide off-line Supplemental Reserve or off-

          line Short-Term Reserve.

   Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer: An Energy Offer, Shut-Down Offer, Hourly




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                           74.0.0


          Curtailment Offer, Spinning Reserve Offer (if a Spin Qualified Resource) and

          Supplemental Reserve Offer, and Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer (if an Off-Line

          Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource) submitted by a Market Participant within the

          MISO Balancing Authority Area for the output of a specified Demand Response

          Resource Type I to supply Energy, Contingency Reserve, and/or Short-Term Reserve to

          the Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Demand Response Resource-Type II Offer: An Energy Offer, Start-Up Offer, No-Load Offer,

          Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer (if a Regulation Qualified

          Resource), Spinning Reserve Offer (if a Spin Qualified Resource), On Line Supplemental

          Reserve Offer (if not a Spin Qualified Resource), Off Line Supplemental Reserve Offer

          (if a Quick Start Resource), Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer (if an Off-Line Short-

          Term Reserve Qualified Resource), Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status and Up and

          Down Ramp Capability dispatch status submitted by a Market Participant within the

          MISO Balancing Authority Area for the output of a specified Demand Response

          Resource Type II to supply Energy and/or Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

          Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve to the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market.

   Designated Agent: Any entity that performs actions or functions required under this Tariff on

          behalf of the Transmission Provider, an Eligible Customer, the Transmission Customer,

          an ITC, the Market Participant or a Local Balancing Authority.

   Designated Flowgate: A Flowgate that has been designated to act as a constraint to power

          transfer on the Bulk Electric System.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                   1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                              74.0.0


   Desired Resource Response: The movement, in MW, that a Resource is capable of providing

          during a Dispatch Interval in response to Setpoint Instructions based on the Resource's

          applicable ramp rate, starting from its actual output at the beginning of the Dispatch

          Interval.

   Direct Assignment Facilities: Facilities or portions of facilities that are constructed by any

          Transmission Owner(s), ITC, or ITC Participant(s) for the sole use/benefit of a particular

          Transmission Customer requesting service under this Tariff. Direct Assignment

          Facilities shall be specified in the Service Agreement (or HVDC Service Agreement) that

          governs service to the Transmission Customer and shall be subject to Commission

          approval.

   Direct Control Load Management: The magnitude of customer demand that can be interrupted

          by direct control of the Local Balancing Authority by interrupting power supply to

          individual appliances or equipment on customer premises. Direct Control Load

          Management does not include Interruptible Demand. Where an RE’s agreements do not

          restrict its reserve sharing pool to only the Local Balancing Authority, utilities acting as

          Market Participants may become members of the reserve sharing pool. These utilities

          have the right to participate in the reserve sharing pool, and to call on Operating

          Reserves, and are obligated to supply reserves when called upon by other entities. A

          utility meeting the above conditions, and which has interruptible contracts with its retail

          customers, may control its Interruptible Demand or Interruptible Load without direction

          from the Local Balancing Authority. The magnitude of customer demand that can be

          interrupted by utilities meeting the above criteria may interrupt power supply to




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                           74.0.0


          individual appliances or equipment on customer premises without direction from the

          Local Balancing Authority.

   Discharge: The injection of stored energy back into the Transmission System by an Electric

          Storage Resource.

   Dispatch Interval: The Dispatch Interval is a 5-minute length of time for which the

          Transmission Provider issues Dispatch Targets for the Real Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections: For a Resource, either: (i) a net Metered or

          calculated 5-minute volume expressed in MW that flows into or out of the Transmission

          System during the Operating Day at a specified location for each Dispatch Interval of the

          Operating Day; or (ii) when these values are not available, the average telemetered output

          for the Resource expressed in MW and scaled by Actual Energy Injections.

   Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Price: The applicable price for Excessive Energy MW in a

          Dispatch Interval.

   Dispatch Interval Excessive Withdrawal Price: The applicable price for Excessive Withdrawal

          MW in a Dispatch Interval.

   Dispatch Model: A model of the Transmission System, Resources, and Load in the

          Transmission Provider Region used by the Transmission Provider to dispatch Resources

          through the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Dispatch Status: A specification submitted by a Market Participant in its Generation Offer,

          External Asynchronous Resource Offer, Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer,

          Demand Response Resource-Type II Offer, or Electric Storage Resource Offer for each




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                            74.0.0


          Hour to indicate whether or how the Transmission Provider is authorized to clear Energy

          or other Operating Reserves on the Resource for the Hour.

   Dispatch Target: Instructions issued by the Transmission Provider to Resources indicating

          Resource Energy quantities to be injected or withdrawn and cleared Operating Reserve,

          Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve cleared for

          Resources at the end of a specific Dispatch Interval.

   Dispatchable Interchange Schedules: Export Schedules for the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market that specify a Bid or Import Schedules for the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market that specify an Offer.

   Dispatchable Intermittent Resource: A Generation Resource whose Economic Maximum

          Dispatch is dependent on forecast-driven fuel availability.

   Dispatchable Intermittent Resource Feasibility Limit: The maximum MW level at which a

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource may operate and/or be scheduled, subject to any

          technical margin(s) as may be provided in the Business Practices Manuals.

   Distribution Facilities: The low-voltage transmission facilities owned or controlled or operated

          by the Transmission Provider, or a Transmission Owner, or both, and used in a sale for

          resale of, or to transmit, electric energy in interstate commerce on behalf of a wholesale

          purchaser pursuant to a Commission filed Open Access Transmission Tariff (i.e., to

          provide Wholesale Distribution Service).

   Disturbance Recovery Period: The amount of time from the occurrence of an event requiring a

          Contingency Reserve deployment to compliance with Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Diversity Contract: A type of power purchase agreement (PPA) between an LSE in the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                             74.0.0


          Transmission Provider Region and an LSE with Demand external to the Transmission

          Provider Region that includes a one for one MW exchange of capacity that is committed

          to the Transmission Provider Region in exchange for capacity committed outside of the

          Transmission Provider Region.

   DOE: The United States Department of Energy.

   Down Ramp Capability (DRC): The product representing the ability of dispatchable resources to

          respond to future downward changes in demand within the Ramp Capability Response

          Time after a given dispatch. The Real-Time Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability

          Requirement is defined by expected market-wide downward variation in dispatchable

          generation to account for forecasted changes in load and Scheduled Interchange while

          considering the contribution of non-dispatchable generation (negative for an upward

          variation) plus the downward short-term uncertainty associated with the Load Forecast,

          non-dispatchable generation forecast, and units not responding to their set points, all

          evaluated over the Ramp Capability Response Time. If the resulting requirement is

          negative, the requirement is set to 0 so the requirement is always non-negative.

   Dynamic Interchange Schedule: Interchange Schedules for which the Market Participant has

          put in place real time and interval metering facilities approved by the Transmission

          Provider where Resources are supplying Energy to Load on a real time basis and the

          supply is being effected through use of scheduled Interchange in the Transmission

          Provider’s Area Control Error equation.

   Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area (Dynamic NCA): An electrical area identified by the IMM

          in accordance with section 63.4.1, sub-paragraphs i through l, of this Tariff, regardless of




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                1.D
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - D
MODULES                                                                                           74.0.0


          whether the area is in an existing or future Narrow Constrained Area, or is defined by one

          or more Binding Transmission Constraint(s) not expected, or not yet determined, to be

          sustained for a period long enough to identify it as a Narrow Constrained Area in

          accordance with section 63.4.1, sub-paragraphs (a) through (h).

   Dynamic Transfers: The provision of the real-time monitoring, telemetering, computer

          software, hardware, communications, engineering, Energy accounting (including

          inadvertent interchange), and administration required to electronically move all or a

          portion of the real Energy services associated with a Generator or Load out of one

          Balancing Authority Area into another.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                           96.0.0


   Eastern Interconnection: The ERO certified Balancing Authorities operating in the eastern part

          of North America.

   Eastern Prevailing Time (EPT): Eastern Daylight Time during periods when the eastern time

          zone is observing daylight saving time, Eastern Standard Time during periods when the

          eastern time zone is observing standard time.

   Economic Maximum Dispatch: The maximum MW level at which a Resource may be

          dispatched by the Transmission Provider in real-time for Energy under normal system

          conditions. For Intermittent Resources or Resources incapable of following Setpoint

          Instructions, the Economic Maximum Dispatch will equal the Actual Energy Injections.

   Economic Minimum Dispatch: The minimum MW level at which a Resource may be

          dispatched by the Transmission Provider in real-time for Energy under normal system

          conditions. For Intermittent Resources or Resources incapable of following Setpoint

          Instructions, the Economic Minimum Dispatch will equal the Actual Energy Injections.

   Effective Import Tie Capability (EITC): The maximum aggregate level of power in MW that

          can be reasonably expected to flow on the transmission tie lines into a specified Zone of

          the Transmission System, while maintaining reliable operation.

   Effective Export Tie Capability (EETC): The maximum aggregate level of power in MW that

          can be reasonably expected to flow outward on the transmission tie lines of a specified

          Zone of the Transmission System, while maintaining reliable operation.

   Electric Distribution Company (EDC): A company that distributes electricity to retail

          customers through distribution substations and/or lines owned by the company.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                            96.0.0


   Electric Facility: Equipment used for the generation, transmission, storage, or control of the

          transmission of electricity and that is connected to or part of the Transmission System

          operated by the Transmission Provider.

   Electric Generation and Transmission Cooperative (Coop): An electric Generation and

          Transmission cooperative is a not for profit rural electric system whose primary function

          is to provide electric power on a wholesale basis to its owners.

   Electric Reliability Organization (ERO): The organization certified by the Commission to

          establish and enforce reliability standards for the bulk-power system, subject to

          Commission review.

   Electric Storage Resource (ESR): A Resource capable of receiving Energy from the

          Transmission System and storing it for later injection of Energy back to the Transmission

          System. This definition includes all technologies and/or storage mediums, including but

          not limited to, batteries, flywheels, compressed air, and pumped-hydro. The location of

          an ESR may be at any point of grid interconnection, on either the Transmission System or

          a local distribution system, but must not be outside the Transmission Provider Region.

          An ESR must: (1) be capable of injecting and withdrawing a minimum of 0.1 MW; (2) be

          capable of complying with the Transmission Provider’s Setpoint Instructions; (3) have

          the appropriate metering equipment installed; and (4) be physically located within the

          MISO Balancing Authority Area. The State of Charge shall be managed by the Market

          Participant operating the ESR. An ESR shall also be deemed a Generator based on, and

          in contexts relevant to, its capability to inject Energy back into the Transmission System.

   Electric Storage Resource Efficiency Factor: An operating characteristic of an Electric Storage




                                                                             Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                   1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                             96.0.0


          Resource that is the amount of increase in Energy Storage Level for each 1 MWh of

          Charge Energy withdrawn by that Resource.

   Electric Storage Resource Offer: An Offer submitted by a Market Participant within the MISO

          Balancing Authority Area for the output of a specified Electric Storage Resource to

          supply Energy, Capacity, Online Short-Term Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve and/or Regulating Reserve to the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Electric Storage Resource Owner: An entity that owns, leases with rights equivalent to

          ownership in, and controls the output of or operates Electric Storage Resources.

   Electric Storage Resource Transaction: Market Activities associated with the charging and

          discharging process of an Electric Storage Resource that consist of the withdrawal of

          Energy from the Transmission System, including any associated Energy purchases, and

          future injection of Energy, including any associated Energy sales, to the Transmission

          System under this Tariff.

   Elemental Pricing Node (EPNode): A single Bus where LMP is calculated.

   Eligible Confirmed Transmission Service Reservation: Any reservation for Transmission

          Service that has been confirmed and has a start date later than the date a Default first

          occurs. Any reservation for Transmission Service that has been confirmed remains a

          conditionally approved request at all times prior to such reservation’s start date and may

          be cancelled if a Default occurs prior to such start date.

   Eligible Customer: (i) Any electric utility (including the Transmission Owner(s), ITC

          Participants(s), and any power marketer), Market Participant, Federal Power Marketing




                                                                              Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                   1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                             96.0.0


          Agency, or any person generating electric Energy for sale or for resale is an Eligible

          Customer under this Tariff. Electric Energy sold or produced by such entity may be

          electric Energy produced in the United States, Canada or Mexico. However, with respect

          to transmission service that the Commission is prohibited from ordering by § 212(h) of

          the Federal Power Act, such entity is eligible only if the service is provided pursuant to a

          state requirement that a Transmission Owner or ITC Participant offer the unbundled

          transmission service, or pursuant to a voluntary offer of such service by a Transmission

          Owner or ITC Participant; or (ii) Any retail customer taking unbundled transmission

          service pursuant to a state requirement that a Transmission Owner or ITC Participant

          offer the transmission service, or pursuant to a voluntary offer of such service by a

          Transmission Owner or ITC Participant, that is an Eligible Customer under this Tariff.

          Unbundled retail customers that seek to take local distribution service cannot be Eligible

          Customers under this Tariff with respect to that service.

   Eligible Projects: Shall mean any Market Efficiency Projects (“MEP”), Multi-Value Projects

          (“MVP”) and Southern State Agreement Projects (“SSAP”) approved by the

          Transmission Provider’s Board after December 1, 2015 regardless of whether such

          project is subject to the Transmission Provider’s Competitive Developer Selection

          Process.

   Emergency: (i) An abnormal system condition requiring manual or automatic action to maintain

          system frequency, or to prevent loss of firm Load, equipment damage, or tripping of

          system elements that could adversely affect the reliability of any electric system or the

          safety of persons or property; (ii) a fuel shortage requiring departure from normal




                                                                             Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                            96.0.0


          operating procedures in order to minimize the use of such scarce fuel; or (iii) a condition

          that requires implementation of Emergency Operating Procedures as defined in this

          Tariff.

   Emergency Demand Response (EDR): A resource that is either on-site end-use customer

          generation designed for Load reduction or controllable Load, that can respond to an EDR

          Dispatch Instruction, in accordance with Schedule 30.

   EDR Dispatch Instruction: Directives issued by the Transmission Provider to EDR Participants

          indicating MW quantities to be reduced during Emergencies.

   EDR Initiative: Procedures for EDR Participants to respond to an Emergency through a defined

          reduction in Load or increase in output from on-site end-use customer generation, as

          described in Schedule 30 of this Tariff.

   EDR Offer: An offer made by an EDR Participant to reduce demand in response to an

          Emergency event which will not be considered in the clearing of the Day-Ahead Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market or Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   EDR Participant: A Market Participant capable of reducing demand in response to directives

          received from the Transmission Provider during an Emergency event.

   Emergency Energy: Purchases of Energy coordinated by the Transmission Provider following

          the issuance of an Energy Emergency Alert in accordance with the procedure set forth in

          Section 40.2.22 of this Tariff.

   Emergency Maximum Energy Storage Level: State of Charge value that should not be exceeded

          when an Electric Storage Resource is being Charged while providing Energy or

          Operating Reserves under Emergency conditions.




                                                                             Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                    1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                              96.0.0


   Emergency Minimum Energy Storage Level: State of Charge value that should not be exceeded

          when an Electric Storage Resource is being Discharged while providing Energy or

          Operating Reserves under Emergency conditions.

   Emergency Operating Procedures: Procedures coordinated by the Transmission Provider prior

          to and during Energy Emergencies.

   Emergency Operations Resource: An online Generation Resource that is not an online Fast

          Start Resource and is started, synchronized and injects Energy, or a Demand Response

          Resource that reduces its Energy consumption, within two hundred forty (240) minutes of

          being notified and that has a minimum run time of less than four hours and that will

          participate in setting price as described in the process in Schedule 29A of this Tariff.

   Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offer: The sum of an online Emergency

          Operations Resource’s Energy Offer, its amortized No Load Offer and, during its

          Minimum Run Time, its amortized Start up Offer; provided, that, in the case of a Demand

          Response Resource – Type I, it shall be the sum of the Energy Offer, its amortized

          Hourly Curtailment Offer and its amortized Shut-Down Offer over its minimum

          interruption duration.

   Emergency Operations Resource All-In Reference Level: The sum of an online Emergency

          Operations Resource’s Energy Reference Level, its amortized No Load Reference Level

          and, during its Minimum Run Time, its amortized Start up Reference Level; provided,

          that, in the case of a Demand Response Resource – Type I, it shall be the sum of the

          Energy Reference Level, its amortized Hourly Curtailment Offer Reference Level and its

          amortized Shut-Down Offer Reference Level over its minimum interruption duration.




                                                                              Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                            96.0.0


   Emergency System Conditions: Are (i) situations in which a systemic equipment malfunction,

          including telecommunications, hardware, or software failures, prevents the Transmission

          Provider from operating the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets in accordance with

          the Market Rules; or (ii) widespread electric transmission or generation equipment

          outages that prevent the Transmission Provider from dispatching the system in

          accordance with the Market Rules.

   Emergency Tier I Offer Floor: The minimum Proxy Offer established by the Transmission

          Provider, as specified in Schedule 29A, following the declaration of maximum generation

          emergency warning as specified in the Transmission Provider’s Emergency Operating

          Procedures. The maximum value of the Emergency Tier I Offer Floor will be the Energy

          Offer Hard Price Cap.

   Emergency Tier II Offer Floor: The minimum Proxy Offer established by the Transmission

          Provider, as specified in Schedule 29A, following the declaration of maximum generation

          emergency event, step 2 as specified in the Transmission Provider’s Emergency

          Operating Procedures. The maximum value of the Emergency Tier II Offer Floor will be

          the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap.

   Energy: An amount of electricity that is Bid or Offered, produced, purchased, consumed, sold,

          injected, withdrawn, or transmitted over a period of time and measured or calculated in

          megawatt hours (MWh).

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market(s): The Day Ahead and/or Real Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets operated by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                           Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                   1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                             96.0.0


   Energy Consumer: Any end-use customer, including but not limited to commercial retail

          consumers of electricity, located within the Transmission Provider Region.

   Energy Deficient Region: An area in which one or more LSEs within the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area are experiencing or are expected to experience an Emergency under the

          procedures specified under Section 40.2.20 of this Tariff.

   Energy Emergency: A condition when a balancing authority can no longer meet the energy

          requirements of the firm end-use load within its balancing authority area and has initiated

          its Energy Emergency procedures.

   Energy Emergency Alert: An alert declared by the Transmission Provider in accordance with

          the NERC Operating Manual associated with the Transmission Provider’s inability to

          provide for the Energy and Operating Reserve requirements of the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area.

   Energy Emergency Area: The area within a balancing authority area that is experiencing an

          Energy Emergency.

   Energy Emergency Alert – Level 1 (EEA-Level 1): Energy Emergency Alert Level 1 as defined

          by NERC.

   Energy Emergency Alert – Level 2 (EEA-Level 2): Energy Emergency Alert Level 2 as defined

          by NERC.

   Energy Emergency Alert – Level 3 (EEA-Level 3): Energy Emergency Alert Level 3 as defined

          by NERC, indicating that firm load interruption is imminent or in progress.

   Energy Management System (EMS): The software system used by the Transmission Provider

          and Transmission Operators for acquisition and processing of operational data.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                            96.0.0


   Energy Market Counterparty: The Transmission Provider as the contracting counterparty to

          Market Participants for all Market Activities contemplated by this Tariff, solely in the

          Transmission Provider’s capacity as a principal and not as an agent for any other party,

          consistent with the provisions of Section 6A.

   Energy Offer: The price at which a Market Participant has agreed to sell the next increment of

          Energy from a Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type I, Demand

          Response Resource-Type II, or the price at which a Market Participant has agreed to sell

          Energy via a Dispatchable Interchange Schedule Import Schedule; or the price at which a

          Market Participant has agreed either to import or export the next increment of Energy

          from an External Asynchronous Resource; or the price at which a Market Participant has

          agreed to either buy (Charge) or sell (Discharge) the next increment of Energy from an

          Electric Storage Resource.

   Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: The maximum price permitted for a Verified Energy Offer, a

          Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offer, or a Verified Emergency Operations

          Resource All-In Energy Offer, to set price in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

          The Energy Offer Hard Price Cap is $2,000/MWh.

   Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: The maximum price permitted for an incremental Energy Offer, a

          Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offer, or an Emergency Operations Resource All-In

          Energy Offer, to set price in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets without prior

          cost verification by the Independent Market Monitor, subject to mitigation under Module

          D when the Energy Offer, the Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offer, or the Emergency

          Operations Resource All-In Energy Offer, cost exceeds the applicable Reference Level.




                                                                             Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                    1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                              96.0.0


          The Energy Offer Soft Price Cap is $1,000/MWh. The Transmission Provider shall also

          verify Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers and Emergency Operations Resource

          All-In Energy Offers pursuant to section 64.1.4.a.iii.d of Module D.

   Energy Offer Price Floor: The minimum price permitted for an Energy Offer in the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets.

   Energy Resource Interconnection Service: The interconnection of a Generation Resource to the

          Transmission System or distribution system, as applicable, to be eligible to deliver the

          Generation Resource’s electric output using the existing firm or non-firm capacity of the

          Transmission System on an as available basis.

   Energy Storage Level: The stored Energy available to the Transmission Provider’s markets for

          Energy or Operating Reserves from a Resource.

   EPT: Eastern Prevailing Time.

   Equity: For credit scoring purposes, the ownership interest in a firm, including the residual

          dollar value of a futures trading account, assuming its liquidation is at the going trade

          price of Applicant or Market Participant.

   Equivalent Forced Outage Rate Demand (EFORd): The Equivalent Forced Outage Rate

          Demand, as defined by NERC.

   EST: Eastern Standard Time.

   Ex Ante MCP: The Regulating Reserve MCP, Regulating Mileage MCP, Spinning Reserve

          MCP, Supplemental Reserve MCP, Up Ramp Capability MCP, Down Ramp Capability

          MCP, and Short-Term Reserve MCP calculated at the beginning of the Dispatch Interval,

          used for informational purposes in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                              Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                     1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                               96.0.0


   Ex Post MCP: The Regulating Reserve MCP, Regulating Mileage MCP, Spinning Reserve

          MCP, Supplemental Reserve MCP, Up Ramp Capability MCP, Down Ramp Capability

          MCP, and Short-Term Reserve MCP calculated for each Dispatch Interval.

   Excess Congestion Charge Fund: A fund established by the Transmission Provider

          representing, in aggregate, the difference between the total of all Transmission

          Congestion Payments for a given Hour and the hourly transmission congestion charges.

   Excessive/Deficient Charge Rate: The rate used to determine a Resource’s Excessive/Deficient

          Energy Deployment Charge as calculated pursuant to Section 40.3.4.b.

   Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge: A charge assessed to any Resource,

          excluding a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, in an Hour with Excessive Energy,

          Deficient Energy, Excessive Withdrawal, Deficient Withdrawal or any combination

          thereof in four (4) or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals within the Hour. For a

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, a charge assessed in an Hour with Excessive Energy

          or Deficient Energy in any one (1) Dispatch Interval within the Hour.

   Excessive Energy: The amount of a Generation Resource’s, Electric Storage Resource’s, or

          External Asynchronous Resource’s Actual Energy Injection at a Commercial Pricing

          Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market in a Dispatch Interval that

          is greater than that Resource’s Excessive Energy Threshold or, the amount of a Demand

          Response Resource’s Type I Calculated DRR Type I Output, as adjusted for Actual

          Energy Injection or Demand Response Resource’s Type II Calculated DRR Type II

          Output, at a Commercial Pricing Node in the Real Time Energy and Operating Reserve




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                   1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                             96.0.0


          Market in a Dispatch Interval that is greater than that Resource’s Excessive Energy

          Threshold.

   Excessive Energy Threshold: The maximum value of a Resource’s Tolerance Band.

   Excessive Energy Tolerance: The MW difference between (1) the Excessive Energy Threshold

          and (2) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval

          and the previous Dispatch Interval plus the average Regulating Reserve Deployment

          instruction for that Dispatch Interval.

   Excessive Withdrawal: The amount of an Electric Storage Resource’s Actual Energy Injection

          at a Commercial Pricing Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market in

          a Dispatch Interval that is less than the minimum of the Deficient Energy Threshold or

          zero (0).

   Expected Unserved Energy (EUE): In the probabilistic study, an estimate of the energy that

          would otherwise have been used by end use customers but for a supply interruption.

   Export Schedule: An Interchange Schedule in which the Interchange Schedule Receipt Point

          lies within the MISO Balancing Authority Area and the Interchange Schedule Delivery

          Point lies outside the MISO Balancing Authority Area.

   Exporting Entity: A Market Participant that is not a Load Serving Entity with a cleared Export

          Schedule in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or an Export Schedule

          in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Extended Locational Marginal Price (ELMP): The Transmission Provider shall implement,

          ELMP, an enhanced pricing mechanism expanding upon LMP and MCP in which

          additional resources, including resources that are scheduled to operate at limits, certain




                                                                              Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - E
MODULES                                                                                            96.0.0


          off-line resources, and the start-up or shut-down and no-load or curtailment costs of

          resources may be included in the calculation of prices at the Commercial Pricing nodes

          located throughout the Transmission Provider region. Such prices shall be calculated per

          the process set forth in Schedule 29A.

   Extended Transmission Outage: A Planned Transmission Outage that exceeds the original

          outage schedule previously provided by the Transmission Owner to the Transmission

          Provider.

   External Asynchronous Resource: A Resource representing an asynchronous DC tie between

          the synchronous Eastern Interconnection grid and an asynchronous grid that is supported

          within the Transmission Provider Region through Dynamic Interchange Schedules in the

          Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and/or Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market. External Asynchronous Resources are located where the

          asynchronous tie terminates in the synchronous Eastern Interconnection grid.

   External Resource: A generator located outside of the metered boundaries of the MISO

          Balancing Authority Area.

   External Resource Zone (ERZ): A grouping of one or more External Resources in the same

          external balancing authority for purposes of the Planning Resource Auction.

   Extreme Event: An event which includes, but is not limited to, extreme weather events, or other

          emergency events that have a severe short-term impact on market pricing. Such an event

          may be declared by the Transmission Provider in its sole discretion and shall affect the

          applicable Credit Policy calculations as set forth in within Attachment L.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                   1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                             66.0.0


   Facility: An electric generating unit or an electric generating station composed of one or more

          contiguous electric generating units aggregated at a single geographical site.

   Facilities Study: An engineering study conducted by the Transmission Provider or ITC in

          collaboration with the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s) to

          determine the required modifications to the Transmission System, including the cost and

          scheduled completion date for such modifications, that will be required to provide the

          requested Transmission Service. The Transmission Provider shall have the final

          determination and ultimate responsibility for any such studies. Facilities Studies for any

          transmission facilities not under the operational control of the Transmission Provider

          shall be performed by the Transmission Owner, or ITC, or any entity it designates to

          perform the studies.

   Fast Ramping Resource: A Generation Resource that: (1) meets the qualification criteria of

          having a: (i) ramp rate greater than eighty (80) MW per minute; (ii) Fast Ramping

          Resource Performance Score that meets or exceeds the Fast Ramping Resource

          Performance Threshold when responding to regulation signals in Fast Ramping Resource

          Performance Tests; and (iii) duration greater than 20 minutes or more for Use Limited

          Resources; and (2) as such, will receive a fast changing regulation signal for a market

          interval for which it has been offered.

   Fast Ramping Resource Historical Performance Score: A performance score calculated on a

          Regulation Qualified Resource as the ratio of its Fast Ramping Resource Passed Intervals

          to its Fast Ramping Resource Valid Intervals in the Dispatch Intervals in all previous

          Hours when it was offered as a Fast Ramping Resource.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                    1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                              66.0.0


   Fast Ramping Resource Passed Interval: An AGC signal interval, within a Fast Ramping

          Resource Performance Test, that is considered passed by a Resource offered as a Fast

          Ramping Resource for a particular Hour, during Regulating Reserve Deployment for the

          AGC signal interval if the MW response of the Resource for the Setpoint Instruction,

          adjusted for the communication delay, is within the tolerance range (i.e., +/- 0.25 MW if

          the delta change is 0.8 MW or less, and +/- 30 percent if the delta change is greater than

          0.8 MW).

   Fast Ramping Resource Performance Score: A score calculated during a Fast Ramping

          Resource Performance Test.

   Fast Ramping Resource Performance Test: A test performed in real time to evaluate the

          capability of a Regulation Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource

          to perform reliably as a Fast Ramping Resource while deploying Regulating Reserve.

          The test will be performed on such a Regulation Qualified Resource that is receiving

          either fast or regular regulation signals. At the start of each hourly interval, the Resource

          will be assigned an initial score that is the higher of the Fast Ramping Resource

          Historical Performance Score or the Fast Ramping Resource Performance Threshold.

          Within each hourly interval, at the end of each Dispatch Interval, a new adjustment to the

          initial score will be calculated as the ratio of Fast Ramping Resource Passed Intervals to

          Fast Ramping Resource Valid Intervals in the current and all previous Dispatch Intervals

          in the particular hourly interval.

   Fast Ramping Resource Performance Threshold: A minimum Fast Ramping Resource

          Performance Score of seventy percent (70%) that a Resource is required to meet to be




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                             66.0.0


          qualified as a Fast Ramping Resource.

   Fast Ramping Resource Valid Interval: An AGC signal interval is considered valid for a

          Resource undergoing a Fast Ramping Resource Performance Test, during its Regulating

          Reserve Deployment for an AGC signal interval, during which a new Setpoint Instruction

          is calculated that changes by a threshold MW of at least 0.1 MW from the previous

          Setpoint Instruction.

   Fast Start Resource: An online Generation Resource that is started, synchronized and injects

          Energy, or a Demand Response Resource that reduces its Energy consumption, within

          sixty (60) minutes of being notified and that has a minimum run time of one hour or less

          and that will participate in setting price as described in the process in Schedule 29A of

          this Tariff. A Fast Start Resource does not include fuel-limited resources such as pumped

          storage, Electric Storage Resources, run-of-river hydro, and wind resources. Offline

          Generation Resources will not participate in setting price as described in the process in

          Schedule 29A of this Tariff.

   Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offer: The sum of an online Fast Start Resource’s Energy

          Offer, its amortized No Load Offer and, during its Minimum Run Time, its amortized

          Start up Offer; provided, that, in the case of a Demand Response Resource – Type I, it

          shall be the sum of the Energy Offer, its amortized Hourly Curtailment Offer and its

          amortized Shut-Down Offer over its minimum interruption duration.

   Fast Start Resource All-In Reference Level: The sum of an online Fast Start Resource’s

          Energy Reference Level, its amortized No Load Reference Level and, during its

          Minimum Run Time, its amortized Start up Reference Level; provided, that, in the case




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                            66.0.0


          of a Demand Response Resource – Type I, it shall be the sum of the Energy Reference

          Level, its amortized Hourly Curtailment Offer Reference Level and its amortized Shut-

          Down Offer Reference Level over its minimum interruption duration.

   Feasibility Upgrade Process: The procedure that enables additional ARRs to be allocated based

          upon Network Upgrades as part of the MTEP process.

   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Uniform System of Accounts: The

          Commission’s Uniform System of Accounts in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 18,

          Conservation of Power and Water Resources, Parts 1-399, pursuant to which electric

          public utilities, licensees and other companies within FERC jurisdiction are required to

          maintain their books and records.

   Federal Power Marketing Agency: Any agency or instrumentality of the United States (other

          than the Tennessee Valley Authority), which sells electric Energy.

   FERC Market Rules: The market behavior rules and the prohibition against electricity Energy

          market manipulation codified by the Commission in its Rules and Regulations at 18 CFR

          § 1c.2 and 35.37, respectively; and any related proscriptions or any successor rules that

          the Commission from time to time may issue, approve or otherwise establish.

   File Transfer Protocol (FTP): The standardized File Transfer Protocol for data transfer.

   Final Planning Reserve Margin Requirement (Final PRMR): For LSEs not selecting the

          Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out, the PRMR established as a result of the PRA

          clearing using RBDCs. For LSEs selecting the RBDC Opt Out, Final PRMR is based on

          the sum of the applicable PRM plus the applicable RBDC Opt Out Adder. LSEs under

          state jurisdiction where the state has overridden the PRM established by the Transmission




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                           66.0.0


          Provider will have a Final PRMR based on the planning reserve margin established by

          the state.

   Financial Schedule: A financial arrangement between two Market Participants designating a

          Source Point, Sink Point and Delivery Point establishing the obligations of the buyer and

          seller for the payment of Cost of Congestion and Cost of Losses. The Transmission

          Provider is not the Energy Market Counterparty to the sale of Energy under a Financial

          Schedule transaction and collects and disburses the Transmission Usage Charge as agent

          for the parties to the Financial Schedule.

   Financial Security: A Cash Deposit or Irrevocable Letter of Credit in an amount and form

          determined by and acceptable to Transmission Provider, provided by an Applicant and/or

          Tariff Customer to Transmission Provider as security.

   Financial Transmission Right (FTR): A financial instrument that entitles the holder to receive

          compensation for or requires the holder to pay certain congestion related transmission

          charges that arise when the Transmission System is congested and differences in

          Marginal Congestion Components of Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs result.

   Firm Flow: The estimated impacts of firm transactions under network and point-to-point

          Transmission Service on a particular Coordinated Flowgate.

   Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: Transmission Service under this Tariff that is

          reserved and/or scheduled between specified Points of Receipt and Points of Delivery

          pursuant to Module B of this Tariff.

   Firm Service Level: The MW portion of the total demand of a Demand Resource that is not

          subject to curtailment as a Demand Resource.




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                     1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                               66.0.0


   First Planning Area: The Transmission System of the Transmission Provider Region as it

          existed immediately before the effective date of the Second Planning Area. The First

          Planning Area may be modified from time to time by: (1) the addition of any

          transmission facilities in the Midwest portion of the United States (i.e., Illinois, Indiana,

          Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, South

          Dakota, and Wisconsin) where transmission facilities not under the functional control of

          the Transmission Provider are subsequently conveyed to the functional control of the

          Transmission Provider to be used to provide Transmission Service under Module B of the

          Tariff; or (2) the withdrawal from the Transmission Provider Region of a Member

          located in the First Planning Area.

   Fixed Carrying Charge: An annual charge calculated by taking the cost of service carrying

          charge elements expressed as a percent multiplied by the Transmission Owner or ITC’s

          rate base. The carrying charge elements include: operations and maintenance,

          depreciation expense, other taxes, return, and income taxes.

   Fixed Demand Bid: A request to purchase a specified MWh quantity of Energy, at specified

          locations in the Transmission Provider Region, during specific Hours of the next

          Operating Day submitted to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          Demand Bids may only be submitted by a Market Participant that is itself a Load Serving

          Entity (LSE) or is purchasing Energy to serve an LSE.

   Fixed Interchange Schedule: An Interchange Schedule consisting of a fixed, non-Dispatchable

          amount, used in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan (FRAP): A plan submitted by an LSE through the MECT to




                                                                           Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                             66.0.0


          the Transmission Provider that is approved by the Transmission Provider which

          demonstrates that the LSE has sufficient ZRCs to meet all or part of its Initial PRMR for

          one or more LRZs in a Season.

   Flowgate: A representative modeling of a facility or group of facilities that may act as a

          constraint to power transfer on the Bulk Electric System.

   Flowgate Rating: The Total Transfer Capability of a Flowgate.

   Forced Outage or Generator Forced Outage: An immediate reduction in output, Capacity or

          removal from service, in whole or in part, of a Generation Resource by reason of an

          Emergency or threatened Emergency, unanticipated failure, inability to return on

          schedule from a Planned Transmission Outage, or other cause beyond the control of the

          owner or operator of the facility, as specified in the relevant portions of the BPM for

          Outage Operations. A reduction in output or removal from service of a Generation

          Resource in response to changes in Energy Market conditions does not constitute a

          Generator Forced Outage.

   Forecast LSE Requirement: The forecasted Demand including the effect of all losses for an

          LSE at a CPNode for a Month less the Full Responsibility Purchases plus the Full

          Responsibility Sales and minus the Demand Resources that were registered to net for a

          given Month all at the same CPNode.

   Forecast Maximum Limit: For a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, the maximum MW level

          at which the Resource is forecasted to operate. In addition, for a ZG Resource

          participating as a DIR, the maximum MW level at which a Resource may operate shall be

          less than the Demand of the Resource’s ZG Associated Loads.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                    1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                              66.0.0


   Foreign Guarantor: A Guarantor that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside of

          the United States or Canada.

   Foreign Guaranty: A Corporate Guaranty accepted from a Guarantor that is organized under

          the laws of a jurisdiction outside of the United States or Canada.

   Forward Reliability Assessment Commitment (FRAC): A RAC process conducted up to seven

          (7) days prior to, and before the closing of, the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   FTR and ARR Transactions Cleared But Not Yet Settled: This service category is a component

          of the FTR Potential Exposure. The FTR and ARR Transactions Cleared But Not Yet

          Settled are calculated on a monthly basis. If the net monthly value is positive, it is

          included in the FTR Potential Exposure calculation. If the net monthly value is negative,

          the value is not included in the FTR Potential Exposure calculation.

   FTR Auction: An auction conducted periodically through which the Transmission Provider,

          subject to the Simultaneous Feasibility Test: (i) awards FTRs of various durations and

          (ii) facilitates the selling of existing FTRs between Market Participants.

   FTR Auction Credit Allocation:        The amount of the Applicant’s and/or Tariff Customer’s

          Total Credit Limit allocated to FTR Auctions.

   FTR Auction Credit Exposure: Exposure to non-payment associated with the amount of the

          Applicant’s and/or Tariff Customer’s FTR Bids and Offers submitted in the auction.

   FTR Auction Participant: A Market Participant that participates in an FTR Auction

          administered by the Transmission Provider.

   FTR Auction Settled Transactions Exposure: The potential exposure to non-payment




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                             66.0.0


          associated with FTR Auction transactions that have been cleared and settled.

   FTR Bid: A bid to purchase an FTR through an FTR Auction.

   FTR Bidder: A Market Participant submitting an FTR Bid.

   FTR Delivery Point: The transaction Delivery Point specified in a receipt point to delivery point

          FTR.

   FTR Holder: A Market Participant that owns one (1) or more FTRs.

   FTR MCP: The price at which a set of Comparable FTRs are sold through an FTR Auction.

   FTR Obligation: A receipt point to delivery point FTR that imposes a financial obligation on

          the FTR Holder if congestion exists in the direction from the FTR Delivery Point to the

          FTR Receipt Point.

   FTR Offer: An offer to sell an FTR through an FTR Auction.

   FTR Offeror: A Market Participant submitting an FTR Offer.

   FTR Option: A receipt point to delivery point FTR that imposes no financial obligations on the

          FTR Holder under any conditions.

   FTR Period: The period(s) of time on a given Day during which an FTR is in effect (On Peak,

          Off Peak, or full Day time period(s)).

   FTR Potential Exposure: The sum of exposure values as defined in Section V.B of Attachment

          L to this Tariff. Included are all FTR related charge types.

   FTR Potential Exposure Violation: A condition that exists whenever a Tariff Customer’s FTR

          Potential Exposure plus the larger of the FTR Auction Credit Allocation or FTR Auction

          Credit Exposure exceeds its Financial Security less its alternative capitalization

          requirement as further defined in Section V.C of Attachment L to this Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                           66.0.0


   FTR Quantity: The quantity in MW specified in an FTR.

   FTR Receipt Point: The transaction receipt point specified in an FTR.

   FTR Transactions Cleared But Not Yet Settled: The value of the FTRs based on the clearing

          price(s) established as a result of an FTR Auction which has been cleared, but has not yet

          been settled.

   Fuel Cost Uncertainty Adder: An amount determined by the Independent Market Monitor, not

          to exceed $100 per MWh, that is included in the Reference Level determination to

          account for fuel cost uncertainty when the resulting Reference Level exceeds $1,000 per

          MWh.

   Full Responsibility Purchases: The total of all purchases coincident with the expected Demand

          of the LSE under which the seller is contractually obligated to deliver Energy plus

          reserves to the purchaser, expressed in MWs for the hour. Reserve provision by the seller

          as a percent must meet or exceed the PRM obligation for the purchasing LSE. Up Ramp

          Capability and Down Ramp Capability by the seller as a percent must meet or exceed the

          PRM obligation for the purchasing LSE. Short-Term Reserve provision by the seller as a

          percent must meet or exceed the PRM obligation for the purchasing LSE. Each

          purchaser and seller must agree on which of their transactions are to be reported under

          this heading.

   Full Responsibility Sales: The total of all sales coincident with the expected Demand of the

          LSE under which the seller is contractually obligated to deliver Energy plus reserves to

          the purchaser, expressed in MWs for the hour. Reserve provision by the seller as a

          percent must meet or exceed the PRM obligation for the purchasing LSE. Up Ramp




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - F
MODULES                                                                                            66.0.0


          Capability and Down Ramp Capability by the seller as a percent must meet or exceed the

          PRM obligation for the purchasing LSE. Short-Term Reserve provision by the seller as a

          percent must meet or exceed the PRM obligation for the purchasing LSE. Each

          purchaser and seller must agree on which of their transactions are to be reported.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.G
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - G
MODULES                                                                                            41.0.0


   GAAP: Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

   Generation Interconnection Projects: New Transmission Access Projects associated with the

          interconnection of or increase in generating Capacity of Generation Resources pursuant

          to Attachment R and Attachment X of this Tariff.

   Generation Offer: An Energy Offer, Start-Up Offer, No-Load Offer, Regulating Capacity Offer

          and Regulating Mileage Offer (if a Regulation Qualified Resource), Spinning Reserve

          Offer (if a Spin Qualified Resource), On Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if not a Spin

          Qualified Resource), Off Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Quick Start Resource),

          Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer (if an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified

          Resource), Up and Down Ramp Capability dispatch status, On-Line Short-Term Reserve

          Dispatch Status, and Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status submitted by a

          Market Participant within the MISO Balancing Authority Area for the output of a

          specified Generation Resource to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

          Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve to the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market.

   Generation Owner: An entity that owns, leases with rights equivalent to ownership in, and

          controls the output of or operates Generation Resources.

   Generation Outage: A forced or planned outage of Generation Resources.

   Generation Resource: A Generation Resource is a Generator within the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area or an External Resource that is Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area and that (i) is registered to participate in the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets, (ii) is capable of supplying Energy, Capacity, Operating Reserve, Up




                                                                              Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                                                 1.G
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - G
MODULES                                                                                            41.0.0


          Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve, (iii) is capable of

          complying with the Transmission Provider’s Setpoint Instructions and (iv) has the

          appropriate metering equipment installed.

   Generation Shift Factors: Ratios equal to the incremental increase or decrease in flow on a

          flowgate divided by an incremental increase or decrease in a Generation Resource’s

          output.

   Generation Verification Test Capacity (GVTC): The maximum output (MW) that a Generation

          Resource, External Resource or BTMG can sustain over the specified period of time, if

          there are no equipment, operating, or regulatory restrictions, minus any Capacity utilized

          for On-Site Self-Supply, as detailed in the Business Practices Manual for Resource

          Adequacy.

   Generator: Any generating or generation facility, including a storage Resource, subject to the

          Transmission Provider’s direction hereunder pursuant to either the Operating Protocol for

          Existing Generators, an IOA or an LGIA.

   Generator Forced Outage: An immediate reduction in output, Capacity or removal from

          service, in whole or in part, of a Generation Resource by reason of an Emergency or

          threatened Emergency, unanticipated failure, inability to return on schedule from a

          Planned Transmission Outage, or other cause beyond the control of the owner or operator

          of the facility, as specified in the relevant portions of the Business Practices Manuals. A

          reduction in output or removal from service of a Generation Resource in response to

          changes in market conditions shall not constitute a Generator Forced Outage.

   Generator Interconnection Agreement (GIA): The form of interconnection agreement provided




                                                                              Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                                                   1.G
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - G
MODULES                                                                                              41.0.0


          in Appendix 6 of Attachment X to the Tariff.

   Generator Planned Outage: The scheduled removal from service, in whole or in part, of a

          Generation Resource for inspection, maintenance or repair with the approval of the

          Transmission Provider in accordance with the Business Practices Manuals.

   Generator Self Supply: For any given period of time, the total Energy taken out of the

          Transmission System by the Loads designated as Self-Supply by a Market Participant

          which is a Generation Owner up to an amount equal to the total Energy placed into the

          Transmission System by the Generators designated as Self-Supply by the same Market

          Participant and owned by it.

   GFA Schedule Delivery Point: The location where a GFA Schedule sinks.

   GFA Schedule Receipt Point: The location where a GFA Schedule sources.

   Good Utility Practice: Any of the practices, methods and acts engaged in or approved by a

          significant portion of the electric utility industry during the relevant time period, or any

          of the practices, methods and acts which, in the exercise of reasonable judgment in light

          of the facts known at the time the decision is made, could have been expected to

          accomplish the desired result at a reasonable cost consistent with good business practices,

          reliability, safety and expedition. Good Utility Practice is not intended to be limited to

          the optimum practice, method, or act to the exclusion of all others, but rather, intended to

          include acceptable practices, methods, or acts generally accepted in the region, including

          those practices required by Federal Power Act Section 215(a)(4).

   Governmental Authority: Any federal, state, local or other governmental regulatory or

          administrative agency, court, commission, department, board, or other governmental




                                                                                Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                                                    1.G
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - G
MODULES                                                                                               41.0.0


          subdivision, legislature, rulemaking board, tribunal or other governmental authority

          having jurisdiction over the Parties, their respective facilities, or the respective services

          they provide, and exercising or entitled to exercise any administrative, executive, police,

          or taxing authority or power; provided, however, that such term does not include the

          Transmission Provider.

   Grandfathered Agreement(s) (GFA): An agreement or agreements executed or committed to

          prior to September 16, 1998 or ITC Grandfathered Agreements that are not subject to the

          specific terms and conditions of this Tariff consistent with the Commission’s policies.

          These agreements are set forth in Attachment P to this Tariff.

   Grandfathered Agreement (GFA) Responsible Entity: An entity financially responsible for all

          costs incurred by transactions pursuant to Grandfathered Agreement(s) under this Tariff.

   Grandfathered Agreement (GFA) Schedule: A Schedule associated with a Grandfathered

          Agreement.

   Grandfathered Agreement (GFA) Scheduling Entity: An entity responsible for scheduling

          Transmission Service or Energy transactions related to Grandfathered Agreements under

          this Tariff.

   Guarantor: A guarantor under a Corporate Guaranty.




                                                                                 Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


   Headroom: For all Resources committed by the Transmission Provider in any real-time RAC

          processes or the LAC process conducted for the Operating Day, the difference between

          (i) the real-time Economic Maximum Dispatch and (ii) the sum of the Real-Time (a)

          Dispatch Target for Energy, (b) Dispatch Target for Regulating Reserve, (c) Dispatch

          Target for Spinning Reserve, (d) Dispatch Target for Supplemental Reserve, and (e)

          Dispatch Target for Short-Term Reserve.

   High Utilization Factor Unit (HUFU) Reserved Source Point (RSP): An RSP that does not

          qualify for inclusion in the BRSS per section 43.2.4.a.i.(b) but has a RSP Utilization

          Factor of seventy percent (70%) or greater.

   Historic Unit Consideration: A right to receive excess Planning Resource Auction revenue

          based on qualification described in Section 69A.7.7(a).

   Hour: A sixty (60) minute clock hour interval commencing the first second of each clock hour.

   Hot-to-Cold Time: The number of hours that must elapse between the time a Generation

          Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, or Electric Storage Resource is

          desynchronized and the time at which a cold Start-Up Offer would apply.

   Hot-to-Intermediate Time: The number of hours that must elapse between the time a

          Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, or Electric Storage

          Resource is desynchronized and the time at which an intermediate Start-Up Offer would

          apply.

   Hourly Bi-Directional Ramp Rate: The MW/minute rate at which a Generation Resource, an

          External Asynchronous Resource, or Demand Response Resource - Type II can respond

          to either increasing or decreasing Setpoint Instructions that may be submitted to override




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


          the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Charge Ramp Rate: The MW/minute response rate for an Electric Storage Resource

          moving from zero output to its Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit and/or from the

          Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit to zero output that is utilized in the clearing of

          the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and all Reliability Assessment

          Commitment processes, and in responding to either increasing or decreasing Setpoint

          Instructions between zero and the Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Curtailment Offer: The compensation request, in dollars per Hour, in a Demand

          Response Resource-Type I Offer by a Market Participant representing the fees required

          for operating a Demand Response Resource Type I in an interrupted state.

   Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate: The MW/minute response rate for an Electric Storage Resource

          moving from zero output to its Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit and/or from

          the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit to zero output that is utilized in the

          clearing of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and all Reliability

          Assessment Commitment processes, and in responding to either increasing or decreasing

          Setpoint Instructions between zero and the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit

          that may be submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration

          process.

   Hourly Economic Maximum Limit: The maximum MW level at which a Generation Resource,

          Demand Response Resource Type II, or External Asynchronous Resource may operate

          under normal system conditions that may be submitted to override the default value




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


          submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit: The maximum withdrawal MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under normal system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit: The maximum injection MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under normal system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Economic Minimum Limit: The minimum MW level at which a Generation Resource,

          Demand Response Resource Type II, or External Asynchronous Resource may operate

          under normal system conditions that may be submitted to override the default value

          submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit: The minimum withdrawal MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under normal system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit: The minimum injection MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under normal system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Electric Storage Resource Efficiency Factor: An operating characteristic of an Electric

          Storage Resource that is the amount of increase in Energy Storage Level for each 1 MWh

          of Charge Energy withdrawn by that Resource and may be submitted to override the

          default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit: The maximum MW level at which a Generation




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


          Resource, an External Asynchronous Resource, or Demand Response Resource Type II

          may operate under Emergency conditions that may be submitted to override the default

          value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit: The maximum withdrawal MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under Emergency system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit: The maximum injection MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under Emergency system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit: The minimum MW level at which a Generation Resource,

          an External Asynchronous Resource, or Demand Response Resource Type II may operate

          under Emergency conditions that may be submitted to override the default value

          submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit: The minimum withdrawal MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under Emergency system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Emergency Minimum Discharge Limit: The minimum injection MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource may operate under Emergency system conditions that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Ex Post MCP: The average Regulating Reserve MCP, Regulating Mileage MCP,

          Spinning Reserve MCP, Supplemental Reserve MCP, Up Ramp Capability MCP, Down

          Ramp Capability MCP, and Short-Term Reserve MCP applicable to a specific Resource




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


          derived through time and quantity weighting of the applicable Ex Post MCPs over the

          Hour, and used for purposes of Settlement of Operating Reserves, Regulating Mileage,

          Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Hourly Fast Ramping Resource: An hourly Offer parameter flag (“Yes/No”) representing

          whether a Resource is offered into the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          as a Fast Ramping Resource.

   Hourly Integrated Forecast Maximum Limit: The hourly integration of the Forecast Maximum

          Limits of a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource as used by the SCED algorithm in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market for a given Hour.

   Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level: The maximum amount of Energy that may be stored

          by an Electric Storage Resource on a sustained basis, expressed in MWh, that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

          This is equivalent to the hourly maximum State of Charge.

   Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Level: The minimum amount of Energy that may be stored

          by an Electric Storage Resource on a sustained basis, expressed in MWh, that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

          This is equivalent to the hourly minimum State of Charge.

   Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit: A MWh lower limit representing a percentage of the

          Capacity of a Fast Ramping Resource up to which it is being offered, which will be used

          in the Automatic Generation Control fast ramping regulation signal logic.

   Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit: A MWh upper limit representing a percentage of the




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


          Capacity of a Fast Ramping Resource up to which it is being offered, which will be used

          in the Automatic Generation Control fast ramping regulation signal logic.

   Hourly Ramp Rate: The MW/minute response rate for a Generation Resource, External

          Asynchronous Resource, or Demand Response Resource Type-II that is utilized in the

          clearing of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and all Reliability

          Assessment Commitment processes that may be submitted to override the default value

          submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP: The LMP derived through mathematical integration of the

          Dispatch Interval Real-Time Ex Post LMPs over the Hour, and used for purposes of

          Settlement of Energy transactions in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market.

   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCP: The average MCPs for Regulating Reserve, Spinning

          Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and

          Short-Term Reserve applicable to a specific Resource derived through time and quantity

          weighting of the applicable Real-Time Ex Post MCPs over the Hour, and used for

          purposes of Settlement of Operating Reserves, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market.

   Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit: The maximum withdrawal MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource can respond to automatic control signals, that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit: The maximum injection MW level at which an




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                            64.0.0


          Electric Storage Resource can respond to automatic control signals, that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit: The maximum MW output at which a Generation

          Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, or External Asynchronous Resource

          can respond to automatic control signals that may be submitted to override the default

          value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit: The minimum withdrawal MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource can respond to automatic control signals, that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit: The minimum injection MW level at which an

          Electric Storage Resource can respond to automatic control signals, that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit: The minimum MW output at which a Generation

          Resource, Demand Response Resource–Type II, or External Asynchronous Resource can

          respond to automatic control signals that may be submitted to override the default value

          submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Single-Directional-Down Ramp Rate: The MW/minute rate at which a Generation

          Resource, an External Asynchronous Resource, or Demand Response Resource-Type II

          can respond to the Setpoint Instructions in the downward direction only that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Single-Directional-Up Ramp Rate: The MW/minute rate at which a Generation

          Resource, an External Asynchronous Resource, or Demand Response Resource-Type II




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                              64.0.0


          can respond to the Setpoint Instructions in the upward direction only that may be

          submitted to override the default value submitted during the asset registration process.

   Hourly Transmission Congestion Charges Collection: The aggregate amount of Transmission

          Usage Charge collected in a given Hour.

   Hub: A Commercial Pricing Node developed for financial and trading purposes.

   HUFU ARR: An ARR allocated during the LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage of an

          Annual ARR Allocation from a HUFU ARR Entitlement.

   HUFU ARR Entitlement: An ARR Entitlement defined from a HUFU RSP to the applicable

          ARR Zone. The MW amount of a HUFU ARR Entitlement is calculated, and

          corresponds to, the RSP MW at a fifty percent (50%) implied capacity factor. A HUFU

          ARR Entitlement is calculated as follows:

          HUFU MW Level = (total net generation MWh in the test period) / (50% x Total Hours

          in the test period).

   Hub LMP: The weighted-averaged LMP for an invariant set of Elemental Pricing Nodes that

          comprise the Hub. The weights are static over time, except for those of Elemental

          Pricing Nodes constituting ARR Zones administered as Hub Commercial Pricing Nodes.

          The weights, or weighting factors, for determining ARR Zone LMPs are updated daily

          based on State Estimator information.

   High-Voltage Direct Current Facilities: The high voltage direct current transmission facilities,

          including associated alternating current facilities, if any, that are subject to Section 27A

          of this Tariff and that are specifically identified in: (i) any Agency Agreement pertaining

          to such facilities between the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owner that




                                                                            Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                    1.H
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - H
MODULES                                                                                               64.0.0


          owns or operates such facilities, or (ii) in any other contractual arrangement that permits

          the Transmission Provider to provide HVDC Service over such facilities, as set forth in

          Section 27A of this Tariff.

   High-Voltage Direct Current Facility Upgrades: All or portion of the modifications or

          additions to any HVDC Facilities for the general benefit of all Users of such HVDC

          Facilities.

   High-Voltage Direct Current Service: Firm and Non-Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service

          provided by the Transmission Provider on HVDC Facilities pursuant to Section 27A of

          this Tariff.

   High-Voltage Direct Current Service Agreement: Any executed or unexecuted agreement for

          HVDC Service, as reflected in Attachment A-3, A-4, and B-1 of this Tariff.

   High-Voltage Direct Current Service Charge(s): The charge(s) for HVDC Service, as stated in

          the relevant HVDC Service Agreement.

   Hybrid Resource: A Generator that combines more than one type of Electric Facility for the

          production and/or storage for later injection of electricity that participates as a single

          Generation Resource in the Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                             Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                          56.0.0


   ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges: A charge that is assessed to a Market Participant

          that fails to submit GVTC results, demonstrate deliverability, demonstrate commercial

          operation, and/or replace ZRCs by the last Business Day prior to the start of any Season

          for which a Market Participant has an ICAP deferral associated with Planning Resources

          that participate in the Resource Adequacy Requirements provisions, including the

          Planning Resource Auction and the Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan, per Section 69A.7.9.

   ICAP Deferral Notice: Notice provided by a Market Participant that elects to defer submission

          of ICAP results in accordance with Section 69A.7.9.

   ICCP/ISN: Common communication protocols adopted to standardize information transfer.

   Import Schedule: An Interchange Schedule in which the Interchange Schedule Delivery Point

          lies within the MISO Balancing Authority Area and the Interchange Schedule Receipt

          Point lies outside of the MISO Balancing Authority Area.

   Inadvertent Energy: The mathematical time integral deviation of a Balancing Authority’s Net

          Scheduled Interchange subtracted from its Net Actual Interchange where a negative value

          denotes a condition of undergeneration and a positive value denotes overgeneration.

   Inadvertent Energy Value: For the MISO Balancing Authority Area within the Transmission

          System, the calculated monetary value for each Hour of the Inadvertent Energy expressed

          in MWh multiplied by the MISO Balancing Authority Area’s average generation Hourly

          Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the Hour.

   Incremental Energy Cost: The area under a Generation Resource’s, Demand Response

          Resource’s–Type II, Electric Storage Resource’s, or External Asynchronous Resource’s

          offered incremental Energy cost curve, consisting of (MW, dollars per MW) pairs,




                                                                         Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                     1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                               56.0.0


          between an upper and lower bound.

   Independent Market Monitor (IMM): The person or person(s), or consulting firm or other

          entity, retained by the Transmission Provider to carry out the Plan described in Module

          D.

   Information Request: A written request, in accordance with the terms of the Tariff, for

          disclosure of Confidential Information pursuant to Section 38.9.4 of the Tariff.

   Inframarginal Rents: Estimated revenues from the Transmission Provider’s Energy and

          Operating Reserves Markets in excess of production costs for a Generation Resource.

   Initial Energy Storage Level: The stored Energy available from an Electric Storage Resource

          for Energy or Operating Reserves at the start of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   Initial Planning Reserve Margin Requirement (Initial PRMR): The PRMR based on the

          Planning Reserve Margin established in the Loss of Load Expectation (LOLE) study.

   Inoperable Capacity: The amount of Generation Resources expected to be totally or partially

          unavailable due to: (i) scheduled outage during the reporting hours, including

          maintenance and planned outages, (ii) legal or regulatory restrictions, including

          environmental restrictions, (iii) extensive modifications or repairs, reduction in output

          due to hydro conditions, or (iv) a mothballed state.

   Installed Capacity (ICAP): The amount of Capacity assigned to a Capacity Resource which is

          the lesser of the Capacity Resource’s annual, seasonal, or monthly net demonstrated

          capability and the net output identified in the Capacity Resource’s Interconnection and

          Operating Agreement.




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                            56.0.0


   Instructed Energy Mileage: The movement, in MW, that a Resource is asked to provide during

          a Dispatch Interval in response to Energy Dispatch Targets and Contingency Reserve

          Deployment Instructions using a resource's applicable ramp rate.

   Instructed Regulating Mileage: The movement during a Dispatch Interval, in MW, that a

          resource is asked to provide in response to Regulation Deployment Instructions.

   Instructed Total Mileage: The movement, MW, that a resource is asked to provide during a

          Dispatch Interval in response to Setpoint Instructions using the resource's applicable

          ramp rate.

   Integrated Control Center System (ICCS): Integrated Control Center Systems for the

          Transmission Provider.

   Integrated Transmission Agreement (ITAs): Agreements regarding cost sharing and

          operational responsibilities between two or more parties involving joint construction and

          integrated ownership and operation of transmission facilities in a Balancing Authority

          Area, where there are several entities owning transmission facilities and only one entity

          has executed the ISO Agreement and transferred operational control of their facilities to

          the Transmission Provider. All ITAs shall be treated as GFAs under this Tariff.

   Intellectual Property: The (i) ideas, designs, concepts, techniques, inventions, discoveries, or

          improvements, regardless of patentability, but including without limitation patents, patent

          applications, mask works, trade secrets, and know-how; (ii) works of authorship,

          regardless of copyright ability, including without limitation copyrights and any moral

          rights recognized by law; and (iii) any other similar rights.

   Interchange: Energy transfers that cross Balancing Authority Area boundaries.




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                            56.0.0


   Interchange Distribution Calculator (IDC): A tool used by Reliability Coordinators in the

          Eastern Interconnection which calculates the distribution of energy flows over specific

          Flowgates and is used for assigned relief obligations and curtailments.

   Interchange Schedule: An Import Schedule, Export Schedule, or Through Schedule.

   Interchange Schedule Delivery Point: The location where an Interchange Schedule sinks. An

          Interchange Schedule Delivery Point can be a Point of Delivery, a Commercial Pricing

          Node, or an FTR Delivery Point.

   Interchange Schedule Receipt Point: The location where an Interchange Schedule sources. An

          Interchange Schedule Receipt Point can be a Commercial Pricing Node, a Point of

          Receipt, or an FTR Receipt Point.

   Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service: The service that the

          Transmission Provider shall provide under Part II of Module F of this Tariff.

   Interconnection Reliability Operating Limit (IROL): A System Operating Limit which, if

          exceeded, could lead to instability, uncontrolled separation, or cascading outages that

          adversely impact the reliability of the Bulk Electric System.

   Interconnection and Operating Agreement (IOA): The form of interconnection agreement

          provided in Attachment R-4 to the Tariff.

   Interconnection Service Limit: The maximum amount of interconnection service approved by

          the Transmission Provider associated with interconnecting a Generator or Generators to

          the Transmission System enabling the Transmission Provider to receive electric energy

          and capacity from a Generator or Generators at the point of interconnection, pursuant to




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                          56.0.0


          the terms of an interconnection agreement or as otherwise agreed to by the Transmission

          Provider and the Generator or Generators and, if applicable, the Tariff.

   Interconnection Service Limit Constraint: A constraint in the Security Constrained Unit

          Commitment, Security Constrained Economic Dispatch, and Security Constrained

          Economic Dispatch Pricing algorithms that collectively limits commitment and dispatch

          of all associated Co-located Resources sharing an Interconnection Service Limit at a

          single point of interconnection.

   Inter-Control Center Protocol (ICCP): Common communication protocols adopted to

          standardize information transfers.

   Interested Government Agencies: The Commission and the state regulatory commissions.

   Interface: An external Commercial Pricing Node where an LMP will be calculated to settle

          Market Activities associated with Import Schedules, Export Schedules, or Through

          Schedules. Interfaces are specified in the Business Practices Manuals.

   Intermittent Generation: A Resource or an External Resource that cannot be committed, de-

          committed, scheduled, or controlled to produce anticipated Energy or Ancillary Services.

   Intermittent Resource: A Resource that is not capable of being committed or decommitted by,

          or following Setpoint Instructions of, the Transmission Provider in the Real-Time Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market.

   Internal Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load: Load within the MISO Balancing Authority Area

          that a Market Participant defines in the Commercial Model as located in a Local

          Balancing Authority Area other than the Local Balancing Authority Area where the Load

          is physically located.




                                                                          Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                     1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                               56.0.0


   Internal Delivery Point: The Commercial Pricing Node used to determine the Transmission

          Usage Charge obligation of both the buyer and the seller under Financial Schedules. An

          Internal Delivery Point can be at any Commercial Pricing Node within the MISO

          Balancing Authority Area and can be the same as the Source Point or the Sink Point

          specified on the Financial Schedule.

   Internal FTRs: FTRs nominated from Network Resources that are internal to either the Local

          Balancing Authority Area or the state where the nominating entity is located, or both.

   Interregional Coordination Process: The coordination process set forth in the Joint Operating

          Agreement between the Transmission Provider and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.

   Interregional Security Network (ISN): Common communication protocols adopted to

          standardize information transfers.

   Interruptible Demand: The magnitude of customer demand that, in accordance with contractual

          arrangements can be interrupted by direct control of the Local Balancing Authority or by

          action of the customer at the direct request of the Local Balancing Authority. This

          demand reduction may be effected by the direct action of the Local Balancing Authority

          after notice to the customer in accordance with contractual provisions. Where an RE’s

          agreements do not restrict its reserve-sharing pool to only the Local Balancing Authority,

          utilities acting as a Market Participant may become a member of the reserve-sharing pool.

          These utilities have the right to participate in the reserve-sharing pool, the right to call on

          operating reserves, and are obligated to supply reserves when called upon by other

          entities. A utility meeting the above conditions, and which has interruptible contracts

          with its retail customers, may control its interruptible demand without direction from the




                                                                             Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                             56.0.0


          Local Balancing Authority.

   Interruptible Load: The magnitude of customer load that, in accordance with contractual

          arrangements, can be interrupted by direct control of the Local Balancing Authority or by

          action of the of the customer at the direct request of the Local Balancing Authority.

          Where an RE’s agreements do not restrict its reserve-sharing pool to only the Local

          Balancing Authority, utilities acting as Market Participants may become members of the

          reserve-sharing pool. These utilities have the right to participate in the reserve-sharing

          pool, the right to call on operating reserves, and are obligated to supply reserves when

          called upon by other entities. A utility meeting the above conditions, and which has

          interruptible contracts with its retail customers, may control its Interruptible Load without

          direction from the Local Balancing Authority.

   Interruption: A reduction in Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service due to economic

          reasons pursuant to Module B, Section 14.7, or Section 27A of this Tariff.

   Irrevocable Letter of Credit: A Letter of Credit naming Transmission Provider as beneficiary

          taking the form found in Exhibit II of Attachment L of this Tariff.

   IRS: The Internal Revenue Service.

   ISO: The Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., also referred to herein as “MISO”

          or the “Transmission Provider.”

   ISO Agreement: The Agreement of Transmission Facilities Owners To Organize the

          Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc., on file with the Commission detailing

          the rights and obligations of the Transmission Provider.

   Issuer Rating: Rating provided by a Rating Agency, representing the Rating Agency’s opinion




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - I
MODULES                                                                                             56.0.0


          of an obligor’s capacity to meet its financial obligations.

   ITC: An independent transmission company that has executed an Appendix I Agreement with

          the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owners.

   ITC Grandfathered Agreements(s): An agreement(s) under which an ITC will perform pursuant

          to its terms and conditions, consistent with the Commission’s policies, rather than under

          the terms of this Tariff or the ITC Rate Schedule. Such agreements are set forth in

          Attachment P. For an ITC Participant that is not a public utility under the Federal Power

          Act, the ITC Grandfathered Agreement(s) shall be as defined in an agreement with the

          ITC. ITC Grandfathered Agreement(s) shall include a service agreement under an ITC

          Participant’s tariff that is superseded by this Tariff only if the service agreement was

          entered into as part of a Commission-approved settlement for a jurisdictional ITC

          Participant or in accordance with an agreement between an ITC and a non jurisdictional

          ITC Participant.

   ITC Participant: An entity that is participating in an ITC.

   ITC Participant Transfer Agreement: The agreement between an ITC Participant and the ITC

          pursuant to which the ITC Participant has transferred ownership or functional

          responsibility of its transmission facilities to the ITC.

   ITC Rate Schedule: All schedules of rates, terms and conditions for ITC Service under this

          Tariff.

   ITC Service: Services provided by an ITC under this Tariff.

   ITC System: The portion of the Transmission System owned, controlled, or operated by an ITC

          and that is part of the Transmission Provider Transmission System as defined herein.




                                                                           Effective On: October 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.J
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - J
MODULES                                                                                           33.0.0



   Joint Action Agency: An independent entity that represents several municipalities and/or

          distribution cooperatives which may act as an agent to purchase power on behalf of such

          municipalities and/or distribution cooperatives.

   Joint-Developer Proposal: A Proposal submitted jointly by two or more RFP Respondents that

          would each be designated as Selected Developers for the Competitive Transmission

          Project, should the Joint-Developer Proposal be designated as the Selected Proposal by

          the Transmission Provider.


   Joint Operating Agreement: The Joint Operating Agreement between the Transmission

          Provider and PJM Interconnection, L.L.C.

   Jointly Owned Generation Resources: A Generation Resource owned by more than one (1)

          entity.

   Joint Registration Organization: A generation or transmission cooperative, a joint-action

          agency or another organization that registers jointly pursuant to Section 501, Subsection

          1.2.7 of the Rules of Procedure for NERC.




                                                                         Effective On: February 2, 2020
MISO                                               1.K
FERC Electric Tariff                    Definitions - K
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    1.L
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - L
MODULES                                                                                              52.0.0


   Large Load: Load with Demand of 50 MW or more associated with any facility or aggregation

          of facilities located at a single substation behind one or more Point(s) of Withdrawal from

          the Transmission System that is owned, operated, or controlled by: (a) a single entity, or

          (b) a group of entities that will coordinate with respect to the profile of the Load. Large

          Load does not include Load used exclusively for charging an Electric Storage Resource.

   Large Load Equipment: Any of the facilities, devices, or equipment that constitutes a part of a

          Large Load, or are used to interconnect the Large Load to the Transmission System.

   Legitimate Risks: Business operation risks, incurred by a Market Participant, that increase as a

          result of providing any of the products described in the Tariff. These risks include, but

          are not limited to, the risk of repair expenses; business interruption due to outages

          resulting from either a failure to start, or unplanned outages that occur when the facility is

          in service; regulatory restrictions; and disruptions from labor relations problems. These

          risks are in the nature of marginal costs included in Reference Levels. In contrast, the

          risk associated with fuel purchase price is not a component of Reference Levels, but

          rather a basis for the Fuel Cost Uncertainty Adder and some of the conduct thresholds

          under Module D.

   Letter of Credit: A Credit Support Document taking the form found in Exhibit II of Attachment

          L to this Tariff.

   Line Outage Distribution Factor (LODF): The percent of flow on line A, which is transferred

          to line B for the loss of line A.

   Load: A term that refers to either an end-user of Energy, net of system losses, or the amount of

          Energy (MWh) consumed by such end-user within the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                          Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.L
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - L
MODULES                                                                                             52.0.0


   Load Forecast: An estimate of the amount of Energy (MWh) or Capacity (MW) to be

          consumed within the Transmission Provider’s Region, prepared by the Transmission

          Provider based upon input from Local Balancing Authorities and Load Serving Entities,

          and used in the Transmission Provider’s scheduling and dispatch decisions to ensure

          reliable operation of the MISO Balancing Authority.

   Load Modifying Resource: A Demand Resource or Behind the Meter Generation Resource.

   Load Modifying Resource Market Participant (LMR MP): A Market Participant that has the

          rights to control the energy demand or the energy production from a Load Modifying

          Resource.

   Load Ratio Share: Ratio of a Transmission Customer’s Network Load in a Zone to the total

          Load in that pricing Zone computed in accordance with Module B, Section 34.2 of this

          Tariff.

   Load Serving Entity (LSE): Any entity that has undertaken an obligation to serve Load for end-

          use customers by statute, franchise, regulatory requirement or contract for Load located

          within or attached to the Transmission System, including but not limited to purchase-

          selling entities and retail power marketers with the obligation to serve Load. Where a

          distribution cooperative or a municipal distribution system otherwise covered by the prior

          sentence is a wholesale customer of a generation and transmission cooperative or a

          municipal Joint Action Agency, the generation and transmission cooperative, a state or

          federal agency or municipal Joint Action Agency may act as the Load Serving Entity for

          such distribution cooperative or municipal distribution system. Where retail Load

          switching occurs in a state, the entity with the obligation to serve Load is the LSE




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.L
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - L
MODULES                                                                                          52.0.0


   Load Shedding: The systematic reduction of system demand by temporarily decreasing Load in

          response to a Transmission System Emergency, Local Transmission Emergency, or

          MISO Balancing Authority Area or Sub-Area Capacity shortages, system instability, or

          voltage control considerations under Module B and Module C, of this Tariff.

   Load Zone: A Zone determined by Market Participants representing an aggregate area of

          consumption for a single Load Serving Entity within the MISO Balancing Authority Area

          and used for the purposes of scheduling, reporting Actual Energy Withdrawal volumes,

          and settling Energy transactions at aggregated Load levels, approved and maintained by

          the Transmission Provider to facilitate transactions.

   Local Balancing Authority (LBA): An operational entity or a Joint Registration Organization

          which is (i) responsible for compliance to NERC for the subset of NERC Balancing

          Authority Reliability Standards defined in the Balancing Authority Agreement for their

          local area within the MISO Balancing Authority Area, (ii) a Party to Balancing Authority

          Agreement, excluding MISO, and (iii) shown in Appendix A to the Balancing Authority

          Agreement.

   Local Balancing Authority Area: Shall have the meaning set forth in the Balancing Authority

          Agreement.

   Local Clearing Requirement (LCR): The minimum amount of Seasonal Accredited Capacity

          for an LRZ that is required to meet its LOLE for each Season while fully using the Zonal

          Import Ability for such LRZ and accounting for controllable exports.

   Local Clearing Requirement Charge: A charge that is assessed to Load Serving Entities

          whenever an LRZ’s Auction Clearing Price for a Season is increased due to its LCR




                                                                      Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.L
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - L
MODULES                                                                                           52.0.0


          being greater than the sum of individual Final PRMR of the LSEs.

   Local Reliability Requirement (LRR): The minimum amount of Unforced Capacity for an LRZ

          to meet its LOLE for each Season, without considering transmission ties to systems

          outside of the LRZ.

   Local Resource Zone (LRZ): A geographic area within the Transmission Provider Region that

          is prescribed by the Transmission Provider, based upon the criteria in Section 68A.3, to

          address congestion that limits Planning Resource deliverability.

   Local Resource Zone Peak Demand: The Demand in MWs, for an LSE and/or EDC, in a Local

          Resource Zone that occurs coincident to the peak Demand for each Season in the Local

          Resource Zone, where all Demand has been augmented to include any known reductions

          in Demand related to LMRs.

   Local Short-Term Reserve: Short-Term Reserve available to the Transmission Provider to

          address transmission constraints in any Reserve Zone(s).

   Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements: The amount of Local Short-Term Reserve, as

          determined pursuant to Module C of the Tariff, that the Transmission Provider is required

          to procure in a Reserve Zone.

   Local Transmission Emergency: Transmission System conditions or events that have the

          potential to exceed or have exceeded operating limits that do not pose a risk of cascading

          to the interconnection but require emergency-level actions.

   Locational Marginal Price (LMP): A price for Energy at a given Commercial Pricing Node in

          the Transmission Provider Region which is the marginal cost of serving demand at the

          Commercial Pricing Node while meeting Zonal and Market-Wide Operating Reserve




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.L
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - L
MODULES                                                                                            52.0.0


          Requirements, Up Ramp Capability requirements, Down Ramp Capability requirements,

          and Short-Term Reserve Requirements. Such price may be either Ex Ante or Ex Post.

   Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: Firm Point To Point Transmission

          Service under Module B of this Tariff with a term of one (1) year or more.

   Long Term Transmission Rights (LTTR): ARRs allocated in Stage 1A of the Annual ARR

          Allocation process. LTTRs carry annual rollover rights lasting ten (10) years or more.

   Look Ahead Commitment (LAC): A process performed during the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market that develops Resource commitment and decommitment

          options that may be used by the Transmission Provider to ensure sufficient Resources

          will be available to meet Load Forecast, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down

          Ramp Capability, Short-Term Reserve and other demand requirements for the near term

          intra-hour intervals.

   Loss of Load Expectation (LOLE): An estimate of the average number of days with supply

          interruption to end use customers, whether for a single hour or multiple hours in a day.

   Loss of Load Probability Curve: The probability of shedding firm Load under varying levels of

          Contingency Reserve shortages, to be used in accordance with Schedule 28. This curve is

          further described in the Transmission Provider’s Business Practices Manual for the

          Energy and Operating Reserves Markets (BPM-002).

   Loss Pools: A single Local Balancing Authority Area or an aggregation of Local Balancing

          Authority Areas, including those Local Balancing Authority Areas operated by

          Coordinating Owners consistent with the terms and provisions of the Coordinating

          Owners agreement, designated by the Transmission Provider for the purposes of




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.L
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - L
MODULES                                                                                          52.0.0


          calculating and distributing Day Ahead and Real Time Hourly Marginal Losses Revenue

          Surplus.

   Lost Opportunity Cost: The LMP revenues that were not realized relative to a theoretical future

          operating point.




                                                                      Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                               1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                          78.0.0


   Maintenance Margin: Projected megawatts of additional generation that can be taken out of

          service for planned maintenance within MISO during a given time period without

          impacting adequacy of generation supply. The projection will be based on a forward

          looking Loss of Load Expectation (LOLE) analysis with known outages and partial

          outages. The LOLE analysis will include, but not limited to, considerations of the

          following: seasonal components, Generator Forced Outage rates of Capacity Resources,

          load forecast uncertainty, and unit derates.

   Manual Redispatch: The Transmission Provider’s issuance of Dispatch Targets created other

          than through the automated SCED computer software.

   Marginal Congestion Component (MCC): A component of LMP which is the transmission or

          Sub-Regional Power Balance congestion charge reflecting the cost of dispatching

          Resources available to the Transmission Provider such that transmission or Sub-Regional

          Power Balance constraints are respected, as measured between the location and the

          Reference Bus.

   Marginal Losses: The Transmission System marginal system losses that arise from changes in

          demand at the Commercial Pricing Node, which are served by changes in generation at

          the Reference Bus.

   Marginal Losses Component (MLC): The component of the LMP at each Commercial Node

          accounting for the cost of Marginal Losses, as measured between the Commercial Pricing

          Node and the Reference Bus.

   Marginal Losses Surplus: The sum of the Day Ahead Hourly Marginal Losses Surplus and the

          Real Time Hourly Marginal Losses Surplus minus any Inadvertent Energy.




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                              1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                         78.0.0


   Marginal Losses Surplus Share: The pro rata allocation of each Local Balancing Authority in

          the Marginal Losses Surplus, allocated per the cost of supplying losses to Load scheduled

          by Market Participants within the Local Balancing Authority Area, excluding any Load

          scheduled by GFA Responsible Entities.

   Marginal Price Differential (MPD): The greater of the highest differential between the Day-

          Ahead and Real-Time Locational Marginal Prices at the 50th percentile over the previous

          twelve (12) months, assessed during the month of April and implemented May 1 of that

          Year and annually thereafter, or the Minimum MPD Value.

   Marginal Reliability Impact Curves (MRI Curves): A smoothed curve representation of

          reliability changes as measured by EUE as incremental/decremental MW changes are

          made in the LOLE analysis from the minimum amount of capacity established in the

          determination of PRM as the starting point, for each Season.

   Market Activities: Transactions and actions taken by Market Participants in the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets, such as purchases and/or sale of Energy and Operating

          Reserve. Market Activities include holding, selling and/or purchasing FTRs, Bids,

          Offers, as well as Interchange Schedules. Additionally, Market Activities include

          services and goods furnished under RAR.

   Market Clearing Price (MCP): A price for Regulating Reserves, Spinning Reserves,

          Supplemental Reserves, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

          Reserves which is the marginal cost of meeting the particular product requirements while

          meeting locational Energy requirements. Such price may be either ex ante or ex post.

   Market Clearing Price Zonal Terms: The following subset of terms used in the Market




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                               1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                          78.0.0


          Clearing Price calculation under Module C. All such constraints noted herein are as set

          forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule 29A. For Operating Reserves: beginning November

          1, 2011, additional marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning

          August 26, 2018, additional marginal cost of managing Sub-Regional Power Balance

          Constraints, in order to supply incremental regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve,

          Supplemental Reserve, or Short-Term Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. For Up Ramp Capability: the Shadow Price of the Ramp Procurement Minimum

          Reserve Zone Up Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint. For Down Ramp

          Capability: the Shadow Price of the Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Down

          Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint.

   Market Efficiency Projects: Network Upgrades proposed by the Transmission Provider,

          Transmission Owner(s), ITC(s), Market Participant(s), or regulatory authorities as

          providing market efficiency benefits to one or more Market Participant(s), but not

          determined by the Transmission Provider to be Multi Value Projects and provide

          sufficient market efficiency benefits as determined by the Transmission Provider to

          justify inclusion into the MTEP.

   Market Hardware: The cost of hardware associated with supporting the market-based

          congestion management systems and processes of the Transmission Provider.

   Market Implementation Errors: Flaws in the design or implementation of software resulting in

          changes in Ex Post LMPs or other prices cleared through the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market and the corresponding changes in Settlements not accurately reflecting

          the application of the Market Rules.




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                    1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                               78.0.0


   Market Load Ratio Share: The factor calculated as the Actual Energy Withdrawals plus Export

          Schedules of a Market Participant at all Commercial Pricing Nodes, other than

          Coordinated Transaction Schedules and Export Schedules for External Asynchronous

          Resources, divided by the sum of all the Actual Energy Withdrawals plus Export

          Schedules at all Commercial Pricing Nodes, other than Coordinated Transaction

          Schedules and Export Schedules for External Asynchronous Resources, in the

          Transmission Provider Region.

   Market Monitoring Liaison Officer: The Transmission Provider officer responsible for

          coordinating with the IMM in carrying out the market monitoring functions.

   Market Participant: An entity that (i) has successfully completed the registration process with

          the Transmission Provider and is qualified by the Transmission Provider as a Market

          Participant, (ii) is financially responsible to the Transmission Provider for all of its

          Market Activities and obligations, and (iii) has demonstrated the capability to participate

          in its relevant Market Activities.

   Market Participant Agreement: The agreement executed by Market Participants confirming

          compliance with the requirements of Module C, as provided in the form of Attachment W

          of this Tariff.

   Market Participant Applicant: An entity that has submitted a Market Participant Application to

          the Transmission Provider.

   Market Participant Application: An application requesting qualification to engage in Market

          Activities as a Market Participant pursuant to the provisions of this Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                            78.0.0


   Market Participant Funded Project (MPFP): Network Upgrades fully funded by one or more

          Market Participants but owned and operated by incumbent Transmission Owners.

   Market Portal: The Internet based computer application or website used by Market Participants,

          the Transmission Provider and other interested entities, to post information related to the

          operation of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, Real-Time Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market and FTRs.

   Market Rules: The rules and procedures for operation of the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, including but not limited to calculation of LMPs and MCPs, in accordance with

          the Transmission Provider’s Open Access Transmission, Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets Tariff.

   Market Software: The software associated with supporting the market-based congestion

          management systems and processes of the Transmission Provider.

   Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability: Down Ramp Capability that is available on a

          Transmission Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Demand Curve: A series of quantity/price points as

          defined in Schedule 28 that is utilized to calculate the Shadow Price of the Down Ramp

          Capability requirement constraint when there is a shortage of Down Ramp Capability

          cleared on a Transmission Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirements: The amount of Down Ramp Capability

          the Transmission Provider is required to procure on a Transmission Provider Region-

          wide as defined in Module C.

   Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement: The amount of Contingency Reserve the




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                           78.0.0


          Transmission Provider is required to procure on a Transmission Provider Region wide

          basis in accordance with Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Market-Wide Operating Reserve: Operating Reserve that is available on a Transmission

          Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource-Type I Operating Reserve Constraint: A

          constraint that limits the amount of Operating Reserve supplied by Demand Response

          Resources – Type I to a level that does not violate Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource-Type I Regulating and Spinning Reserve

          Constraint: A constraint that limits the amount of Regulating plus Spinning Reserves

          supplied by Demand Response Resources – Type I to a level that does not violate

          Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Market-Wide Operating Reserve Demand Curve: A series of quantity/price points as defined in

          Schedule 28 that is used to calculate the Shadow Price of a particular Operating Reserve

          requirement constraint when there is a shortage of Operating Reserve cleared on a

          Transmission Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Operating Reserve Requirement: The sum of the Market-Wide Contingency

          Reserve Requirement and Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement.

   Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve Demand Curve: A series of quantity/price

          points as defined in Schedule 28 that is utilized to calculate the Market-Wide Regulating

          and Spinning Reserve constraint Shadow Price when there is a shortage of the Market-

          Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve cleared on a Transmission Provider Region-wide

          basis.




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                               1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                          78.0.0


   Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve Requirement: The amount of Market- Wide

          Regulating and Spinning Reserve the Transmission Provider is required to procure on a

          Transmission Provider Region-wide basis in accordance with Applicable Reliability

          Standards.

   Market-Wide Regulating Mileage Deployment Ratio: The ratio of the Regulating Mileage

          Target and the Regulating Reserve Dispatch Target. This ratio will be calculated and

          updated pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.

   Market-Wide Regulating Reserve: Regulating Reserve that is available on a Transmission

          Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Demand Curve: A series of quantity/price points as defined

          in Schedule 28 that is utilized to calculate the Shadow Price of the Regulating Reserve

          requirement constraint when there is a shortage of Regulating Reserve cleared on a

          Transmission Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirements: The amount of Regulating Reserve the

          Transmission Provider is required to procure on a Transmission Provider Region-wide

          basis in accordance with Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve: Short-Term Reserve that is available on a Transmission

          Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Demand Curve: A series of quantity/price points as defined

          in Schedule 28 that is utilized to calculate the Shadow Price of the Market-Wide Short-

          Term Reserve Requirement constraint when there is a shortage of Short-Term Reserve

          cleared on a Transmission Provider Region-wide basis.




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                               1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                          78.0.0


   Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirements: The amount of Market-Wide Short-Term

          Reserve, as determined pursuant to Module C of the Tariff, that the Transmission

          Provider is required to procure on a Transmission Provider Region-wide.

   Market-Wide Spinning Reserve: Spinning Reserve that is available on a Transmission Provider

          Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Supplemental Reserve: Supplemental Reserve that is available on a Transmission

          Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability: Up Ramp Capability that is available on a Transmission

          Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Demand Curve: A series of quantity/price points as defined

          in Schedule 28 that is utilized to calculate the Shadow Price of the Up Ramp Capability

          requirement constraint when there is a shortage of Up Ramp Capability cleared on a

          Transmission Provider Region-wide basis.

   Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirements: The amount of Up Ramp Capability the

          Transmission Provider is required to procure on a Transmission Provider Region-wide as

          defined in Module C.

   Markets and Services: The markets that are operated, or the Tariff services provided by the

          Transmission Provider, including but not limited to, the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets, Market Activities, any market for the purchase or sale of transmission rights,

          Coordination Service and any other market administered, coordinated or facilitated by the

          Transmission Provider. This shall include any additional services that may be offered by

          the Transmission Provider that would have the effect of facilitating or improving




                                                                      Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                  1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                             78.0.0


          competitive conditions in the region.

   Material: An amount that is the lesser of: (i) the materiality standard established by the

          accounting firm performing the respective entity’s annual audit; (ii) an amount that

          equals or exceeds five percent (5%) of the entity’s tangible net worth for the preceding

          financial year, calculated in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles;

          and (iii) a change, event, proceeding, occurrence that results (or if adversely determined

          could result) in a change of five percent (5%) or more in the entity’s tangible net worth

          compared to the tangible net worth of the entity for the preceding fiscal year, calculated

          in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles.

   Material Change: Any Material Change in the financial condition of the respective entity or any

          change, event or occurrence which, individually or in the aggregate could have a Material

          adverse effect on any current or future financial result or financial condition of the entity

          and includes, without limitation, the items listed in Section I.B.3, Material Changes of

          Attachment L of this Tariff.

   Maximum Charge Time: The maximum duration that an Electric Storage Resource is able to

          Charge.

   Maximum Daily Energy: Maximum amount of Energy, in MWh, that a Generation Resource,

          Demand Response Resource – Type II, Demand Response – Type I, or Electric Storage

          Resource may supply over a Day.

   Maximum Daily Regulation Down Deployment: The maximum amount of net Regulating

          Reserve Deployment, expressed in MWh, that may be supplied in the down direction by a

          Demand Response Resource – Type II, or Electric Storage Resource during the Operating




                                                                        Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                           78.0.0


          Day in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserves Market.

   Maximum Daily Regulation Up Deployment: The maximum amount of net Regulating Reserve

          Deployment, expressed in MWh, that may be supplied in the up direction by a Demand

          Response Resource – Type II, or Electric Storage Resource during the Operating Day in

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserves Market.

   Maximum Discharge Time: The maximum duration that an Electric Storage Resource is able to

          Discharge.

   Maximum Energy Storage Level: State of Charge value that should not be exceeded when an

          Electric Storage Resource is being Charged while providing Energy or Operating

          Reserves under normal operating conditions.

   Maximum Generation Emergency: An Emergency declared by the Transmission Provider in

          which the Transmission Provider anticipates requesting one (1) or more Generation

          Resources to operate at its maximum net or gross electrical output, subject to the

          equipment stress limits for such Generation Resource and any environmental restrictions,

          in order to manage, alleviate or end the Emergency.

   Maximum Interruption Duration: The maximum length of time a Demand Response Resource-

          Type I can be expected to reduce Load following an instruction from the Transmission

          Provider.

   Maximum Interruption Limit: The maximum number of times within a Day that a Demand

          Response Resource – Type I can reduce Load following an instruction from the

          Transmission Provider.

   Maximum Off-line Response Limit: The maximum amount of Supplemental Reserve that can




                                                                      Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                  1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                             78.0.0


          be provided by a Generation Resource from a cold, off-line state or that can be provided

          by a Demand Response Resource-Type II or Electric Storage Resource within the

          Contingency Reserve Deployment Period.

   Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit: The maximum amount of Short-

          Term Reserve, greater than or equal to the Economic Minimum Dispatch, that can be

          provided by a Generation Resource from a cold, off-line state or that can be provided by

          a Demand Response Resource – Type II within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment

          Period.

   Maximum Regulation Capability: A Resource’s Maximum Regulation Capability for the

          purposes of calculating the minimum Regulating Reserve requirement within a Reserve

          Zone, as specified under Section 39.2.1A.e.iii of this Tariff, is equal to that Resource’s

          Hourly Bi Directional Ramp Rate multiplied by the Regulation Response Time.

   Maximum Run Time: Maximum length of time that a Resource can be expected to operate

          under normal operating conditions.

   Maximum Shut Down Limit: Maximum number of times a Resource is able to shut down

          within a twenty four (24) hour period.

   Maximum Start Up Limit: The maximum number of times a Generation Resource, Demand

          Response Resource – Type II, or Electric Storage Resource can engage in a start up

          within a twenty four (24) hour period.

   Megavars (MVAR): A unit of measure of reactive power support.

   Measurement and Verification: Procedures for the estimation of load reductions through the

          use of Load Modifying Resources, EDR resources, Demand Response Resources –Type I




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                               1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                          78.0.0


          or Demand Response Resources –Type II. The Transmission Provider shall provide in

          the Tariff, including Attachment TT, the details of the approved measurement and

          verification methodologies that can be used for measuring the response of the Demand

          Response Resources, LMRs and EDR resources. Such methodologies may include and

          will be consistent, but not be limited to, the applicable North American Energy Standards

          Board Measurement and Verification standards and other applicable standards.

   Member: A signatory member of the ISO Agreement, including an ITC consistent with the

          terms of the Appendix I Agreement entered into between the Transmission Provider and

          the ITC.

   Meter Data Management Agent (MDMA): An entity designated by the Market Participant that

          provides meter data, representing the Actual Energy Injections or Actual Energy

          Withdrawals at each Commercial Pricing Node for which it is designated, to the

          Transmission Provider on a Market Participant’s behalf.

   Metered: Refers to electrical quantities (MW or MWh) that represent the usage or production of

          Energy by Loads or Resources determined with facilities compliant with Transmission

          Provider metering guidelines.

   MISO Balancing Authority: The Transmission Provider in its role as the operator of the MISO

          Balancing Authority Area.

   MISO Balancing Authority Area: The electric power system bounded by interconnection

          metering and telemetering to which a common generation control scheme is applied in

          order to: (i) match the power output of the Generation Resources within the

          Transmission Provider Region and Energy delivered from or to entities outside the




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                            78.0.0


          Transmission Provider Region, with the demand (including losses) within the

          Transmission Provider Region, including demand that has been Pseudo-tied through a

          Local Balancing Authority and excluding demand that has been Pseudo-tied into an

          external Balancing Authority Area; (ii) maintain scheduled Interchange with other

          Balancing Authority Areas, consistent with Good Utility Practice; (iii) assist in the

          maintaining of the frequency of the Eastern Interconnection, consistent with Good Utility

          Practice and Applicable Reliability Standards.

   MISO Balancing Authority Load: The sum of all Actual Energy Withdrawals at all

          Commercial Pricing Nodes within the MISO Balancing Authority Area, including Actual

          Energy Withdrawals associated with Load Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area through an LBA and excluding Actual Energy Withdrawals associated

          with Load Pseudo-tied out of the MISO Balancing Authority Area.

   MISO Midwest MVP Cost Allocation Subregion: The part of the Transmission Provider Region

          identified as such in Attachment XX.

   MISO Regional Expansion Criteria and Benefits (RECB): The Transmission Provider’s

          framework for defining the criteria to be used to justify inclusion of transmission

          expansion proposals in the MISO Transmission Expansion Plan (MTEP), and for

          developing a mechanism to allocate the costs of these expansions.

   MISO South MVP Cost Allocation Subregion: The part of the Transmission Provider Region

          identified as such in Attachment XX.

   MISO Transmission Expansion Plan (MTEP): A long range plan used to identify expansions

          or enhancements to the Transmission System to: i) support efficiency in bulk power




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                  1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                             78.0.0


          markets; ii) facilitate compliance with documented federal and state energy laws,

          regulatory mandates, and regulatory obligations; and iii) maintain reliability. The MTEP

          is developed biennially or more frequently, and subject to review and approval by the

          Transmission Provider Board. The MTEP shall address Transmission Issues including,

          but not necessarily limited to: i) Transmission Issues identified from Facilities Studies; ii)

          Transmission Issues associated with Generator Interconnection Projects; iii)

          Transmission Issues identified by the Transmission Owners; iv) Transmission Issues

          identified by the Transmission Provider working in collaboration with Transmission

          Owners, their state and local regulatory commissions and other stakeholders; and v) the

          transmission planning obligations of a Transmission Owner and/or the Transmission

          Provider, imposed by federal or state law(s), regulations, or regulatory authorities. The

          MTEP shall also consider the planning needs and drivers of adjacent regional

          transmission organizations (“RTOs”) and other transmission planning regions to develop

          long-term inter-regional plans for the benefit of the combined regions, as and to the

          extent provided for in joint agreements between the Transmission Provider and other

          RTOs, and/or in their respective tariffs.

   Minimum Acceptance Ratio: The minimum acceptable ratio, as expressed by a Market

          Participant in a replacement request, of the megawatt quantity of replacement ARR

          Entitlements to the megawatt quantity of existing ARR Entitlements being replaced.

   Minimum Bid Price: A price per MW specified in Section IV.C of Attachment L used to

          compute FTR Auction Credit Exposure.

   Minimum Bid Requirement: A value that is calculated by multiplying the Minimum Bid Price




                                                                        Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                              1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                         78.0.0


          times the MW values specified in the formula in Attachment L Section IV.B.

   Minimum Charge Time: The minimum duration that an Electric Storage Resource is able to

          Charge.

   Minimum Discharge Time: The minimum duration that an Electric Storage Resource is able to

          Discharge.

   Minimum Down Time: The minimum length of time required for a Generation Resource or

          Demand Response Resource Type II to begin operations following shut down.

   Minimum Interruption Duration: The minimum length of time a Demand Response Resource-

          Type I must be interrupted, from the time the Resource reduces demand to the time the

          Demand Response Resource Type I can restore demand.

   Minimum MPD Value: The minimum price (per MWh) that may be used in calculating MPD.

          This value shall be determined by the Transmission Provider as set forth within

          Attachment L of the MISO Tariff.

   Minimum Non-Interruption Interval: The minimum length of time between two consecutive

          instructions to reduce demand during which a Demand Response Resource-Type I cannot

          be interrupted

   Minimum Run Time: The minimum length of time a Generation Resource or Demand

          Response Resource Type II must run, from the time the Resource is put online to the time

          the Resource is shut down.

   MISO Transmission Portfolio Solutions (MTPS): Multi-Value Projects included in a Portfolio

         and/or JTIQ Upgrade projects included in a JTIQ Portfolio.

   Mitigation Measures: Procedures designed to mitigate abuses of market power or manipulation




                                                                      Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                            78.0.0


          as defined in Module D of this Tariff.

   Module E Capacity Tracking Tool (MECT): The electronic tool used by the Transmission

          Provider and Market Participants to track and analyze compliance with RAR obligations,

          including, but not limited to: Forecast LSE Requirements; the transfer and designation of

          ZRCs; and other RAR attributes and information.

   Month: One (1) calendar month, except in the case of the calendar month containing the

          Operating Day on which the Transmission Provider begins to operate the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets, in which case a Month shall be the period of time from the

          first Day that the Transmission Provider operates the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets through the last Day of that following calendar month. If the Transmission

          Provider starts operation of the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets on the first day of

          a calendar month, Month is defined as one (1) calendar month.

   Monthly Bidding Period: A period of time during a calendar month when the Transmission

          Provider will accept Bids/Offers to buy/sell FTRs in the Transmission Provider’s next

          monthly auction.

   Monthly Net Actual Energy Withdrawal: For a Commercial Pricing Node a calculated volume

          in MWh that flows out of the Transmission System during the Operating Month at a

          specified location that is equal to the net positive sum of (1) the hourly time-weighted

          average of the Metered volume of the Commercial Pricing Node and (2) the hourly time-

          weighted Actual Energy Injections for Demand Response Resources and EDR resources

          associated to a Load Zone. The Commercial Pricing Node Metered volume in MWh that

          flows out of the Transmission System during the Operating Month, used for the




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 1.M
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - M
MODULES                                                                                            78.0.0


          calculation of the Monthly Net Actual Energy Withdrawal, is submitted to the

          Transmission Provider by a Market Participant or a Market Participant’s Meter Data

          Management Agent for each Hour of the Operating Month that is used for Settlement

          purposes.

   Monthly Zonal Transmission Load: The monthly zonal Transmission System peak in the

          pricing zone minus the coincident peak usage of all Firm Point To Point Transmission

          Service customers pursuant to Module B of this Tariff plus the Reserved Capacity of all

          Firm Point To Point Transmission Service customers in the pricing zone.

   MTPS ARR: A form of ARR held and administered by the Transmission Provider under Section

          47 of this Tariff, based on the incremental transmission capacity created by MTPS.

   MTPS ARR Entitlements: Rights held by the Transmission Provider to nominate and receive

          MTPS ARRs on the basis of MTPS upgrades.

   Multi-Value Project (MVP): One or more Network Upgrades that address a common set of

          Transmission Issues and satisfy the conditions listed in Sections II.C.1, II.C.2, and II.C.3

          of Attachment FF.

   Must-Run Commitment: A Market Participant - designated commitment of a Generation

          Resource or Demand Response Resource Type II, indicating that such Resource shall be

          committed regardless of costs.

   MW: Megawatt or megawatts submitted or measured in tenths of a MW.

   MWh: Megawatt hour or megawatt hours submitted or measured in tenths of a MWh.




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                           52.0.0


   Narrow Constrained Area: An electrical area in the Transmission Provider Region identified by

          the IMM that is defined by one or more Binding Transmission Constraints, or binding

          Post Reserve Deployment Constraints (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance

          Constraints), or binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint into the Second

          Planning Area, that are expected to be binding for at least five hundred (500) hours

          during a given year and within which one or more suppliers are pivotal.

   Native Load Customers: The wholesale and retail power customers of Load Serving Entities on

          whose behalf the Transmission Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s), by statute, franchise,

          regulatory requirement, or contract, has (have) undertaken an obligation to construct and

          operate the Transmission Owner(s’) and ITC Participant(s’) system(s) to meet the reliable

          electric needs of such customers.

   NERCNet: The NERC frame relay network.

   NERC Registered Balancing Authority: A Balancing Authority that has registered pursuant to

          the NERC Organization, Registration and Certification Procedures, as required under the

          Balancing Authority’s delegation agreement with NERC.

   NERC Registered Transmission Operator: A Transmission Operator that has registered

          pursuant to the NERC Organization, Registration and Certification Procedures, as

          required under the Balancing Authority’s delegation agreement with NERC.

   NERC Registered Transmission Provider: A transmission provider that has registered pursuant

          to the NERC Organization, Registration and Certification Procedures, as required under

          the Balancing Authority’s delegation agreement with NERC.

   NERC Reliability Coordinator Standards of Conduct: The NERC agreement that requires




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                             52.0.0


          Reliability Coordinators to provide an explanation of how they are complying with the

          independence requirement and otherwise implementing the standards of conduct

          approved by the Board of Trustees.

   NERC System Data Exchange (SDX): A NERC support service provided for the benefit of

          Reliability Coordinators and other system operators that facilitates the exchange of data

          among Reliability Coordinators.

   Net Cost of New Entry (Net CONE): The capital, operating, financial and other costs of

          acquiring a new Generation Resource within the Transmission Provider Region for any

          designated LRZ, after netting out Inframarginal Rents.

   North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC): The Electric Reliability

          Organization, or its successor organization, responsible for the oversight of Regional

          Entities established to ensure the reliability and stability of the regions.

   North American Electric Standards Board (NAESB): The North American Electric Standards

          Board, or its successor.

   Net Actual Interchange: Algebraic sum of all metered Interchange over all metered

          interconnections between two physically adjacent Balancing Authority Areas.

   Net Benefits Price Threshold (NBPT): A value expressed in $/MWh corresponding to the point

          along the Net Benefits Supply Curve where elasticity is less than or equal to one for all

          greater quantities beyond which the benefits from the reduced LMP resulting from

          dispatching of DRR exceeds the payments made to the Demand Response Resources.

   Net Benefits Supply Curve: A mathematical representation of the supply curve derived from

          prior year Real Time Offers of available Resources, excluding DRR, and other variables




                                                                           Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                           52.0.0


          that will be updated monthly by the Transmission Provider as new data becomes

          available.

   Net Output: Net Output of a Facility during any Month means: i) with respect to the On-Site

          Self Supply of Station Power, the gross Energy output from the Facility less Station

          Power requirements for such Facility during that Month; or ii) with respect to the Remote

          Self Supply of Station Power, the aggregate of the gross Energy output from the Facility

          requiring Station Power service plus the Energy scheduled for Remote Self Supply to

          such Facility, less the Station Power requirements of such Facility during that Month.

          For the purposes of Schedule 20, any Energy that falls under the definition of Station

          Power must be netted against Energy produced during the Month.

   Net Scheduled Interchange (NSI): The algebraic sum of all Interchange Schedules across a

          given path or between Balancing Authorities for a given period or instant in time.

   Network Customer: An entity receiving Transmission Service pursuant to the terms of the

          Transmission Provider’s Network Integration Transmission Service under Module B of

          this Tariff.

   Network Integration Transmission Service: The Transmission Service provided under Module

          B of this Tariff.

   Network Load: The Load that a Network Customer designates for Network Integration

          Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff. The Network Customer’s Network

          Load includes all Load served by the output of any Network Resources designated by the

          Network Customer. A Network Customer may elect to designate less than its total Load

          as Network Load but may not designate only part of the Load at a discrete Point of




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                            52.0.0


          Delivery. Where an Eligible Customer has elected not to designate a particular Load at

          discrete Points of Delivery as Network Load, the Eligible Customer is responsible for

          making separate arrangements under Module B of this Tariff for any Point To Point

          Transmission Service that may be necessary for such non-designated Load. Network

          Loads under Schedule 9 – Michigan of this Tariff for the Transmission System

          (Michigan) must be directly interconnected with the Transmission System (Michigan) or

          through the Distribution Facilities in the Transmission System (Michigan).

   Network Model: A representation of the Eastern Interconnection which contains generation,

          transmission, and Load elements.

   Network Operating Agreement: An executed agreement that contains the terms and conditions

          under which the Network Customer shall operate its facilities and the technical and

          operational matters associated with the implementation of Network Integration

          Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff.

   Network Operating Committee: A group made up of representatives from the Network

          Customer(s), the Transmission Provider, and the affected Transmission Owner(s)

          established to coordinate operating criteria and other technical considerations required for

          implementation of Network Integration Transmission Service under Module B of this

          Tariff.

   Network Resource: Any designated Generation Resource, External Resource or portion thereof,

          that is owned or leased by a Network Customer, or whose output is under contract to a

          Network Customer, and that is designated under the Network Integration Transmission

          Service provisions of Module B in this Tariff. Network Resources do not include any




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                             52.0.0


          Resource, or any portion thereof, that is committed for sale to third parties or otherwise

          cannot be called upon to meet the Network Customer’s Network Load on a non-

          interruptible basis, except for purposes of fulfilling obligations under a reserve sharing

          program.

   Network Resource Interconnection Service (NR Interconnection Service): shall mean an

          Interconnection Service that allows Interconnection Customer to integrate its Generating

          Facility with the Transmission System in the same manner as for any Generating Facility

          being designated as a Network Resource. Network Resource Interconnection Service

          does not convey transmission service. Network Resource Interconnection Service shall

          include any network resource interconnection service established under an agreement

          with, or the tariff of, a Transmission Owner prior to integration into MISO, that is

          determined to be deliverable through the integration deliverability study process.

   Network Upgrades: All or a portion of the modifications or additions to transmission related

          facilities that are integrated with and support the Transmission Provider’s overall

          Transmission System for the general benefit of all Users of such Transmission System.

   New LSE: A Load Serving Entity for new Load, within the Transmission Provider’s Balancing

          Authority Area, that is served from Transmission Facilities under the functional control

          of the Transmission Provider as a result of a Transmission Owner transferring functional

          control of its transmission facilities to the Transmission Provider through execution of the

          Transmission Owners Agreement, irrespective of whether such LSE is a new or an

          existing Member. An LSE that serves Load not already subject to RAR, shall be referred

          to as a “New LSE.”




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                             52.0.0


   New Transmission Access Projects: Network Upgrades identified in Facilities Studies and

          agreements pursuant to requests for transmission delivery service or transmission

          interconnection service under this Tariff. This includes projects needed to maintain

          reliability while accommodating the incremental needs associated with requests for new

          transmission or interconnection service, as determined in Facilities Studies associated

          with such requests. These projects are either Generation Interconnection Projects or

          Transmission Delivery Service Projects.

   Next-Hour Transmission Service: Point To Point Transmission Service that (i) is reserved for

          one (1) Hour and (ii) is requested within sixty (60) minutes before the start of the

          schedule.

   Node: A physical location represented in the Network Model.

   No Load Offer: The compensation request in a Generation Offer or Demand Response Resource

          Type II Offer, in dollars, by a Market Participant representing the fees requested by the

          Market Participant for operating a Generation Resource or Demand Response Resource

          Type II at zero (0) MW.

   Non-Binding Settlement Zone: Any Reserve Zone with a Market Clearing Price for Regulating

          Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, or Short-Term Reserve, as applicable,

          derived in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market that has any zero Market Clearing Price Zonal

          Terms for Operating Reserves or Short-Term Reserve, used for the purposes of allocating

          Operating Reserve and Short-Term Reserve costs in accordance with Schedules 3, 5, 6,

          and 51, respectively.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                             52.0.0


   Non-Disclosure Agreement: An agreement established between the Transmission Provider and

          affected parties governing the disclosure of Confidential Information; provided, however,

          that in the case of such an agreement between an Authorized Requestor and the

          Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 38.9.4 of the Tariff, the applicable form is

          appended to the Tariff as Attachment EE, wherein the Authorized Requestor is given

          access to otherwise restricted Confidential Information.

   Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation (Non-Emergency BTMG): Generation

          resources that are located behind a CPNode that are not included in the Transmission

          Provider’s Setpoint Instructions or Scheduling Instructions that do not have an obligation

          to be made available during Emergencies.

   Non-Excessive Energy: Energy injected or withdrawn by a Resource at a Commercial Pricing

          Node in a Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market that

          is less than or equal to that Resource’s Excessive Energy Threshold.

   Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: Point To Point Transmission Service under

          this Tariff that is reserved and scheduled on an as-available basis and is subject to

          Curtailment or Interruption as set forth in Section 14.7 of this Tariff. Non-Firm Point To

          Point Transmission Service is available on a stand alone basis for periods ranging from

          one (1) hour to one (1) month.

   Non-Firm Sale: An Energy sale for which receipt or delivery may be interrupted for any reason

          or no reason, without liability on the part of either the buyer or seller.

   Non-Foreign Guarantor: A Guarantor that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction within

          the United States or Canada.




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                   1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                              52.0.0


   Non-Foreign Guaranty: A Corporate Guaranty accepted from a Guarantor that is organized

          under the laws of a jurisdiction within the United States or Canada.

   Non-FTR Credit Limit: The amount of Unsecured Credit approved by Transmission Provider

          for Applicant and/or Tariff Customer, plus any Available Non-FTR Financial Security.

   Non-FTR Potential Exposure: The sum of exposure values as defined in Section V.A of

          Attachment L to this Tariff. Included are all non-FTR related charge types.

   Non-FTR Potential Exposure Violation: A condition that exists whenever a Tariff Customer’s

          Non-FTR Potential Exposure equals or exceeds its Non-FTR Credit Limit as further

          defined in Section V.C of Attachment L to this Tariff.

   Non-owner Member: Non-owner Member as defined in the ISO Agreement.

   Non Public Power: For credit scoring purposes, any Applicant or Market Participant that does

          not meet the definition of a Public Power entity.

   Non Public Power Composite Score: For credit scoring purposes, the weighted average value of

          the Non-Public Power Qualitative Score and the Non-Public Power Quantitative Score.

          The relative weights are forty percent (40%) and sixty percent (60%), respectively.

   Non Public Power Qualitative Score: A component of a Non Public Power Composite Score

          which has, for credit scoring purposes, a value ranging from 1 to 6.99, with 1 being the

          best and 6.99 being the worst. The value is based on a review by the Transmission

          Provider of qualitative factors relative to an Applicant’s business, including, but not

          limited to: i) regulatory; ii) legal; iii) demographic; and iv) energy supply/price factors as

          provided in Attachment L to this Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.N
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - N
MODULES                                                                                            52.0.0


   Non Public Quantitative Score: A component of a Non Public Power Composite Score which

          has, for credit scoring purposes, a value ranging from 1 to 6.99, with 1 being the best and

          6.99 being the worst. The value is based on a review by the Transmission Provider’s

          credit scoring model in Attachment L to this Tariff.

   Notification Deadline: The cut-off time, four hours prior to the operating hour, by which

          schedule changes must be reported to the Transmission Provider to enable it to reflect

          such changes in the RAC process or the LAC process.

   Notification Deadline Dispatchable Intermittent Resource (DIR) Forecast: An optional

          notification, in MW, of a Forecast Maximum Limit for a DIR prior to the Notification

          Deadline. If a Notification Deadline DIR Forecast is not submitted, it will be deemed to

          be equal to the Day-Ahead Schedule.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.O
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - O
MODULES                                                                                            58.0.0


   OASIS Request Evaluation: The evaluation of a request for Transmission Service received on

          the Transmission Provider OASIS by measuring the effects of the transfer on each

          constrained facility.

   Offer: An offer, that is duly submitted to the Transmission Provider consistent with this Tariff

          and the Business Practices Manuals, to (a) sell Energy and Operating Reserve in the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets at a specified price, location, quantity, and time

          period and shall include (i) Generation Offers, (ii) Demand Response Resource-Type I

          Offers, (iii) Demand Response Resource-Type II Offers and (iv) Dispatchable

          Interchange Schedule Import Schedules and (b) purchase Energy through Fixed

          Interchange Schedule Import Schedules and Dynamic Interchange Schedule Import

          Schedules at a specified location, quantity, and time period and (c) an Energy Offer in the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets from an External Asynchronous Resource at a

          specified price, location, quantity and time period.

   Offer Floor: The minimum price permitted for an Offer in the Energy Markets and which shall

          be negative $500/MWh.

   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer: The price, in dollars per MW per Hour, at which an Off-

          Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource has agreed to sell Short-Term Reserve.

   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Cap: The maximum price permitted for an Off-Line

          Short-Term Reserve Offer in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Floor: The minimum price permitted for an Off-Line

          Short-Term Reserve Offer in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.




                                                                              Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.O
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - O
MODULES                                                                                          58.0.0


   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource: A Generation Resource (that is not a

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, Intermittent Resource or Electric Storage Resource),

          Demand Response Resource – Type I, or Demand Response Resource – Type II that has

          met the requirements to be eligible to submit Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offers into

          the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Off Line Supplemental Reserve Offer: The price at which an uncommitted Quick Start

          Resource has agreed to sell Supplemental Reserve in dollars per MW per Hour.

   Off-Peak: All periods of time not classified as On Peak.

   On Line Supplemental Reserve Offer: The price at which a synchronized Generation Resource,

          a synchronized Demand Response Resource Type II, an available External Asynchronous

          Resource, or an Electric Storage Resource with a Commitment Status of Continuous or

          Discharge that is a Supplemental Reserve Qualified but not a Spin Qualified Resource

          has agreed to sell Supplemental Reserve in dollars per MW per hour.

   OMS: The Organization of MISO States, Inc., or any successor organization.

   OMS Committee: OMS Committee shall be the committee that is composed of members of the

          Organization of MISO States, established as an autonomous and self-governing body

          pursuant to the bylaws of the Organization of MISO States, having the responsibilities

          and rights defined in Section I.B of Attachment FF of the Tariff and associated Business

          Practices Manual. The OMS Committee has the opportunity to provide input into the

          transmission planning, resource adequacy, and transmission cost allocation approach and

          processes, and may report periodically to the Transmission Provider Board. To enable it

          to exercise the authority described herein, the OMS Committee will be adequately




                                                                            Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                                   1.O
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - O
MODULES                                                                                              58.0.0


          supported by the Transmission Provider through reasonable in-kind services and through

          the provision of reasonable funding, with the costs recovered from Transmission

          Customers under Schedule 10 of the Tariff.

   On Peak: Period of time between Hour-ending 0700 EST through and including Hour-ending

          2200 Hours EST Monday through Friday excepting New Year’s, Memorial Day, Fourth

          of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day or if the holiday occurs on a

          Sunday, the Monday immediately following the holiday.

   On-Site Self-Supply: The netting of the generation output of a Facility against the Facility’s

          Station Power Load, which shall include all Energy received by the Facility to serve its

          Station Power Load, regardless of its voltage or the metering point of receipt.

   Open Access Same Time Information System (OASIS): A computerized information system,

          developed as an Internet application that allows the Transmission Provider to exchange:

          (i) Transmission Service and Ancillary Service information with Transmission

          Customers, and (ii) Energy and Operating Reserve Markets clearing information with

          Market Participants and Local Balancing Authorities. The OASIS requirements and

          standards of conduct contained were initially defined in the Commission’s Order No.

          889, as superseded by Order No. 2004.

   Operable Capacity: Generation Capacity of a Resource, including Electric Storage Resource,

          that is readily converted to Energy and is measured in MW. For External Asynchronous

          Resource (EAR), Operable Capacity is the Capacity range from the EAR's maximum

          import capacity to the EAR's maximum export capacity.

   Operating Authority: Transmission Owners, Local Balancing Authorities, or other entities




                                                                              Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                                1.O
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - O
MODULES                                                                                           58.0.0


          responsible for the reliability and security of the Transmission System.

   Operating Cash Flow: Earnings before depreciation minus taxes (calculated in accordance with

          GAAP). Measures the cash generated from operations, not counting capital spending or

          working capital requirements.

   Operating Cost Survey: The process and data content of the Independent Market Monitor’s

          continuous survey of operating cost data requested by the Independent Market Monitor

          and submitted by Market Participants. The data is collected through a secure website,

          hosted and administered by the Independent Market Monitor, through which Market

          Participants provide and update data regarding operating costs and capabilities of

          Capacity Resources. The Independent Market Monitor uses Operating Cost Survey data

          as an input in determining Reference Levels. Reference Levels are used to implement

          Module D of the Tariff, including the verification of Offers that exceed the Energy Offer

          Soft Price Cap and/or the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap.

   Operating Day: The daily twenty four (24) hour period beginning at midnight EST for which

          transactions in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets are scheduled.

   Operating Expense Allocation Factor: The allocation percentages for Schedule 10 operating

          costs to be recovered under Schedule 31.

   Operating Expenses: All costs shown on the Schedule 10 income statement of the Transmission

          Provider except the following: (a) FERC Fees, (b) depreciation, (c) amortization, and (d)

          other income/(expense).

   Operating Guide: A written set of operating practices that affect the Reliability Coordination

          Customer Transmission Facilities or the Combined Reliability Systems to be followed for




                                                                             Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                                1.O
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - O
MODULES                                                                                           58.0.0


          transmission and generation operation, including implementing procedures, actions, and

          sequences of actions to be taken to maintain operations within operating reliability

          criteria.

   Operating Protocol for Existing Generators: The rate schedule accepted by the Commission

          and made effective as the Transmission Provider’s First Revised Rate Schedule No. 4.

   Operating Reserve: That capability above firm system demand maintained to provide for

          Regulation, Load forecasting error, equipment forced and scheduled outages, and local

          area protection. It consists of Regulating Reserve and Contingency Reserve.

   Operating Reserve Cost: The cost to supply Operating Reserve based on the Operating Reserve

          Offers only. The Operating Reserve Cost does not include the Opportunity Cost of

          providing Operating Reserves.

   Operations Planning Data: Information relevant to operational planning, including data

          regarding Flowgates, Transmission Service Reservations, Available Flowgate Capability

          Data (AFC), Load Forecast, Generator Data, Jointly-Owned Units, Intermittent

          Generation, Balancing Authority Area Net Interchange from Reservations and Tags,

          Dynamic Transfers, Controllable Devices and Generation and Transmission Outages.

   Operator-Initiated Commitment Report: A monthly report listing the commitment size, Local

          Resource Zone, commitment reason, and commitment start time of each operator-

          initiated commitment made after the Day-Ahead Market, including both manual and

          automated commitments.

   Opportunity Costs: The Energy margins that a Resource must forgo to utilize a portion of its

          Capacity to supply Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability,




                                                                              Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.O
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - O
MODULES                                                                                          58.0.0


          and/or Short-Term Reserve in lieu of Energy.

   Optimal Achievable Output (OAO): The output level that an online Resource would have

          achieved given prevailing ex-ante prices had the: a) Resource been dispatchable and

          followed the Transmission Provider’s Setpoint Instructions across the prior 12 Dispatch

          Intervals; and, b) Market Participant offered Economic Maximum Dispatch, Economic

          Minimum Dispatch, Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit, Hourly Regulation Minimum

          Limit (if regulation committed), and ramp rates that are within the conduct thresholds

          specified in Section 64.1.2.

   Other Ancillary Services: The Ancillary Services provided by the Transmission Provider other

          than the services provided for under Schedule 3, Schedule 5 and Schedule 6 of this Tariff.

   Outages: Planned or forced outages of generation or transmission resources.




                                                                             Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                                1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                          71.0.0


   Partial-Year FTR Allocation: The procedure used by the Transmission Provider to allocate

          FTRs to Market Participants in the new ARR Zones added as a result of Transmission

          Provider Region expansion that becomes effective after the start of the Annual ARR

          Allocation period. The Partial-Year FTR Allocation will cover the partial year period

          when the new ARR Zone(s) become effective to the start of the next Annual ARR

          Allocation. For the partial year period, the Market Participants in the new ARR Zone(s)

          may request an allocation of FTRs, which will be in lieu of an allocation of ARRs.

   Party(ies): The Transmission Provider, ITC where appropriate, Market Participants,

          Transmission Customers, or any combination of the above.

   Past Due Amount: Any amount invoiced by the Transmission Provider that is not paid when

          due.

   Peak Reserved Source Set: Set of Resources including those constituting the Baseload Reserved

          Source Point that have met the Resource Qualification Requirements for inclusion as a

          Reserved Source Point for a given ARR Zone.

   Peak Usage: A Market Participant’s Total Forecasted Peak Load in a given ARR Zone for the

          upcoming Annual ARR Allocation period calculated using the immediate prior three year

          actual peak Loads. The Total Forecast Peak Load is the sum of the forecast Network

          Integration Transmission Service peak Load for the upcoming allocation period plus peak

          Load served by Option A – Grandfathered Agreements plus peak Load served by Option

          B – Grandfathered Agreements.

   Penalty Level: A component of a mitigation measure described in Module D that represents the

          amount of Energy purchased by a Market Participant that is an LSE or represents an LSE




                                                                      Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                     1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                               71.0.0


          in the Real Time Energy Market in excess of the Allowance Level the entity is subject to.

   Physical Withholding Threshold Quantity: Threshold employed by the IMM to identify

          physical withholding by a supplier of Planning Resources for the Planning Resource

          Auction, expressed in MW.

   Plan: The Transmission Provider’s Market Monitoring Plan set forth in Module D of this Tariff.

   Planned Transmission Outage: Any transmission outage scheduled for the performance of

          maintenance or repairs or the implementation of a system enhancement which is planned

          in advance for pre-determined duration and which meets the notification requirements for

          such outages as specified by the Transmission Provider.

   Planning Advisory Committee: A committee of stakeholders established under the ISO

          Agreement for the purpose of providing input to the planning staff on the development of

          the MTEP.

   Planning Area(s): A collective or alternative reference to the First Planning Area and/or the

          Second Planning Area.

   Planning Coordinator: The entity responsible for the longer term reliability of its planning

          coordinator area.

   Planning Reserve Margin (PRM): The percentage above forecasted Coincident Peak Demand

          of Planning Resources for the Transmission Provider Region in order to meet the LOLE.

          This percentage will include a quantity sufficient to cover transmission losses.

   Planning Reserve Margin Requirement (PRMR): The amount of ZRCs required of each LSE

          with Coincident Peak Demand in an LRZ to meet the LSE’s Resource Adequacy

          Requirements in each Season.




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                          71.0.0


   Planning Resource: A Capacity Resource or Load Modifying Resource that can be used to

          satisfy PRMR.

   Planning Resource Auction (PRA): Auctions conducted by the Transmission Provider to

          determine the ACP and the cleared ZRC Offers for each LRZ and ERZ for each Season

          in the applicable Planning Year.

   Planning Year: The period of time from June 1st of one year to May 31st of the following year

          that is used for developing Resource Plans. The first Planning Year shall commence on

          June 1, 2009.

   PMAX: The maximum Generator real power output reported in MWs on a seasonal basis.

   PMIN: The minimum Generator real power output reported in MWs on a seasonal basis.

   Point(s) of Delivery: Point(s) on the Transmission System where Capacity and Energy

          transmitted by the Transmission Provider will be made available to the Receiving Party

          under Module B and Module C of this Tariff. The Point(s) of Delivery shall be specified

          in the Service Agreement for Long Term Firm Point To Point Transmission Service or

          the HVDC Service Agreement.

   Point(s) of Receipt: Point(s) of interconnection on the Transmission System where Capacity and

          Energy will be made available to the Transmission Provider by the Delivering Party

          under Module B and Module C of this Tariff. The Point(s) of Receipt shall be specified

          in the Service Agreement for Long Term Firm Point To Point Transmission Service or

          the HVDC Service Agreement.

   Point(s) of Withdrawal: The point(s) where a non-transmission facility that is used to withdraw

          Energy from the Transmission System to serve Load connects to the Transmission




                                                                      Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                            71.0.0


          System.

   Point-To-Point Transmission Service: The reservation of Capacity and of Energy on either a

          firm or non firm basis from the Point(s) of Receipt to the Point(s) of Delivery under

          Module B of this Tariff.

   Portfolio: For Multi-Value Project purposes, means two or more Multi-Value Projects proposed

          to be located in one or more Transmission Pricing Zones that, when evaluated together,

          are expected to result in system-wide benefits across the MISO footprint or benefits

          across the subregion. For purposes of the Portfolio, subregion refers to either the MISO

          Midwest MVP Cost Allocation Subregion or MISO South MVP Cost Allocation

          Subregion.

   Post Reserve Deployment Constraints: The post zonal Operating Reserve and Short-Term

          Reserve deployment flows on the transmission constraints and Sub-Regional Power

          Balance Constraints, used to determine the Co-optimized Zonal Regulating Reserve

          Requirement, Co-optimized Zonal Contingency Reserve Requirement, Co-optimized

          Zonal Spinning Reserve Requirement, and Co-optimized Zonal Short-Term Reserve

          Requirement, for each Reserve Zone.

   Post Reserve Deployment Constraints Demand Curve: Demand curves used to price Post

          Reserve Deployment Constraints.

   Power Purchaser: The entity that is purchasing the Capacity and reserved Energy to be

          transmitted under this Tariff.

   PPA Schedule: Schedule associated with a PPA that is executed after April 3, 2014.

   Pre-Confirmed Application: An Application that commits the Eligible Customer to execute a

          Service Agreement upon receipt of notification that the Transmission Provider can



                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                            71.0.0


          provide the requested Transmission Service.

   Price Sensitive Demand Bids: Demand Bids in which the Market Participant specifies a

          maximum price (dollars per MWh) at which the Market Participant desires to purchase

          the designated MWh of Energy.

   Price Taker: A Market Participant with an Energy and/or Operating Reserve Offer not capable

          of setting LMPs or MCPs.

   Production Costs: The Energy output cost of a Generation Resource or a Demand Response

          Resource-Type II based upon Start Up, No Load and Energy Offer cost components set

          forth in an Offer or the Energy reduction cost of a Demand Response Resource-Type I

          based upon Shut Down Offer, Hourly Curtailment Offer and Energy Offer cost

          components set forth in an Offer.

   Project Cost: All costs for Network Upgrades, as determined by the Transmission Provider to be

          a single transmission expansion project, including those costs associated with seeking and

          obtaining all necessary approvals for the design, engineering, construction, and testing of

          the Network Upgrades. These Network Upgrades will include costs classified by the

          Transmission Owners and Independent Transmission Companies as transmission plant

          using the Uniform System of Accounts 350 through 359 or equivalent set of accounts for

          any Coordinating Owner.

   Project Financial Security: The Cash Deposit or Irrevocable Letter of Credit described in

          Appendix 1 to Attachment FF of the Tariff that a Selected Developer is required to

          provide.

   Proposal: A proposal to construct, implement, own, operate, maintain, repair, and restore all




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                             71.0.0


          Competitive Transmission Facilities associated with a Competitive Transmission Project,

          in response to a Request for Proposal. Proposals may be submitted in one of two different

          forms: (i) a Single-Developer Proposal; or (ii) a Joint-Developer Proposal. The term

          “Proposal” shall include “Single-Developer Proposal” and “Joint-Developer Proposal”.

   Proposal Cure Period: A period of time, as set forth within Attachment FF, Section VIII.D.10,

          allowed for an RFP Respondent to correct deficiencies identified by the Transmission

          Provider in its previously submitted Proposal. The Proposal Cure Period commences

          upon notification by the Transmission Provider to an RFP Respondent of deficiencies in

          its Proposal.

   Proposal Participant(s): Any entity or entities involved in a Proposal, excluding the RFP

          Respondent(s), that will co-own the Competitive Transmission Project and rely on the

          RFP Respondent(s) to be the Selected Developer(s) responsible for constructing and

          implementing the Competitive Transmission Facilities associated with the Competitive

          Transmission Project. Proposal Participants may be identified in a Proposal as

          responsible for one or more aspects of operations, maintenance, repair, or restoration, on

          terms comparable to those that would apply if the RFP Respondent(s) intended to rely on

          a third-party contractor.

   Proposal Submission Deadline: The date and time Proposals must be submitted to the

          Transmission Provider by in order to be considered and evaluated by the Transmission

          Provider. The Submission Deadline shall be no later than 5:00 PM EPT on the date specified

          in the RFP, which shall not exceed one hundred and sixty-five (165) Calendar Days from the

          date the RFP was issued by the Transmission Provider, unless such date falls on a Saturday,

          Sunday, or MISO observed holiday in which case the Proposal Submission Deadline shall be



                                                                         Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                    1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                              71.0.0


          the next Business Day that is not a MISO observed holiday.

   Proposed Generator Planned Outage: The planned removal from service, in whole or in part,

          of a Generation Resource for inspection, maintenance or repair for which the Generation

          Owner has sought or will seek approval from the Transmission Provider for such planned

          removal in accordance with the Business Practices Manuals.

   Protected Information: Privileged and non public information to be maintained by the

          Transmission Provider.

   Proxy Offers: The Offers created for resources that are deployed during Emergency operating

           procedures by the Transmission Provider as specified in Schedule 29A.

   Pseudo-tie: A telemetered reading or value that is updated in real time and used as a tie line

          flow in the Area Control Error equation but for which no physical tie or energy metering

          actually exists. The integrated value is used as a metered MWh value for interchange

          accounting purposes. Pseudo tied status of Resources and Loads may only be changed

          during Network Model updates and the timing of such updates shall be as defined in the

          Business Practices Manuals.

   Pseudo-tie Agreement: The Agreement between MISO and a Market Participant included as

          Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2 to this Tariff, as applicable, outlining the terms

          and conditions of the real-time transfer of control of a generating unit or load to (or from)

          the MISO Balancing Authority Area from (or to) a specified external Balancing

          Authority Area.

   Public Power: For credit scoring purposes, an Applicant or Market Participant that is a not for

          profit municipality, cooperative, Joint Action Agency, or agent representing one or more

          Public Power entities and whose credit quality is directly derived from the credit quality



                                                                         Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                     1.P
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - P
MODULES                                                                                               71.0.0


          of the Public Power entities represented through the agency relationship.

   Public Power Composite Score: For credit scoring purposes, the weighted average value of the

          Public Power Qualitative Score and the Public Power Quantitative Score. The relative

          weights are sixty percent (60%) and forty percent (40%).

   Public Power Qualitative Score: A component of a Public Power Composite Score which has,

          for credit scoring purposes, a value ranging from 1 to 6.99, with 1 being the best and 6.99

          being the worst. The value is based on a review by the Transmission Provider of

          qualitative factors relative to an Applicant’s business, including but not limited to: i)

          regulatory; ii) legal; iii) demographic; and iv) energy supply/price factors as provided in

          Attachment L to this Tariff.

   Public Power Quantitative Score: A component of a Public Power Composite Score which has,

          for credit scoring purposes, a value ranging from 1 to 6.99, with 1 being the best and 6.99

          being the worst. The value is based on a review by the Transmission Provider of various

          financial metrics as detailed in the Transmission Provider’s credit scoring model in

          Attachment L.




                                                                          Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                1.Q
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - Q
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


   QMAX: The maximum Generator reactive power output reported in MVARs at full real power

          output of the unit.

   QMIN: The minimum Generator reactive power output reported in MVARs at full real power

          output of the unit.

   Qualified Generator: The generation resource(s) having the technical capability of providing

          reactive supply and voltage control as determined by the Transmission Provider in

          accordance with the provisions specified in Schedule 2 of this Tariff.

   Qualified Transmission Developer: A Transmission Owner, ITC, or Non-owner Member that

          submits a Transmission Developer Application and is subsequently found by the

          Transmission Provider to meet the minimum requirements for a Qualified Transmission

          Developer as outlined in Section VIII.B of Attachment FF of the Tariff.

   Quarterly Study Period: The stretch of time in which Attachment Y Notices are compiled and

          subsequently studied. There are four study periods in a year with the following start and

          end dates:

          Quarter 1: The first Business Day of March through the last Business Day of May;

          Quarter 2: The first Business Day of June through the last Business Day of August;

          Quarter 3: The first Business Day of September through the last Business Day of

          November;

          Quarter 4: The first Business Day of December through the last Business Day of

          February.

   Quick Start Resource: A Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, or

          Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource that can be started, synchronized and inject




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       1.Q
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Definitions - Q
MODULES                                                                                  35.0.0


          Energy within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period.




                                                                     Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                             72.0.0


   Ramp Capability Response Time: The duration of time beyond the Resource dispatch target

          time which is used to determine the market-wide requirements and Resource participation

          capabilities for the Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability products.

   RAR Potential Exposure: The sum total of exposure values as defined in Section V.A.6 of

          Attachment L to this Tariff.

   Rating Agency: A nationally recognized statistical rating organization, as such term is defined

          in the regulations promulgated by the SEC. These may include, but are not limited to,

          Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch.

   Reactive Supply and Voltage Control: Reactive power support necessary to maintain

          transmission voltages within limits that are established by the Transmission Provider,

          which is measured in MVARs.

   Real-Time and Projected Operating Data: The categories of information that the Transmission

          Provider and the Congestion Management Customer (or the Congestion Management

          Customer’s tariff administrator or Reliability Coordinator, as appropriate) shall transfer

          to each other as provided in Section 80.1.1 of the Tariff.

   Real-Time Energy Purchases: For a Market Participant, a value in MWh equal to the sum of

          the following, as applicable:

          (i) For Load Zones, the maximum of (a) the difference between (1) Actual Energy

                 Withdrawals (net of Real-Time Financial Schedules) and (2) Day-Ahead

                 Schedules for Energy or (b) zero (0);




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                 1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                            72.0.0


          (ii) for Resources, the maximum of (a) the difference between (1) Day-Ahead Schedules

                 for Energy or (2) Actual Energy Injections (net of Real-Time Financial

                 Schedules) or (b) zero (0);

          (iii) for Virtual Transactions, the Day-Ahead Schedule resulting from a cleared Virtual

                 Supply Offer;

          (iv) for Import Schedules, the maximum of (a) the difference between (1) the Day-Ahead

                 Import Schedule and (2) the Real-Time Import Schedule and (b) zero (0);

          (v) for Export Schedules, other than Export Schedules for External Asynchronous

                 Resources, the maximum of (a) the difference between (1) the Real-Time Export

                 Schedule and (2) the Day-Ahead Export Schedule and (b) zero (0); and

          (vi) for Real-Time Financial Schedules, without any associated Actual Energy Injections

                 or Actual Energy Withdrawals, the volume associated with the seller side of the

                 Real-Time Financial Schedule.

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market: The Market for purchases and sales of

          Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-

          Term Reserve conducted by the Transmission Provider during the Operating Day.

   Real-Time Ex Ante LMP: The LMP, associated with a specific location, calculated at the

          beginning of the Dispatch Interval, using the process defined in Schedule 29 of this

          Tariff, that is used for informational purposes in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   Real-Time Ex Ante MCP: The MCP, associated with a specific location, for Regulating

          Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                             72.0.0


          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve calculated at the beginning of the Dispatch Interval,

          using the process defined in Schedule 29 of this Tariff, that is used for informational

          purposes in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Real-Time Ex Post LMP: The LMP calculated for each Dispatch Interval using the process

          defined in Schedule 29A of this Tariff.

   Real-Time Ex Post MCP: The MCP for Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental

          Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve

          calculated for each Dispatch Interval using the process defined in Schedule 29A of this

          Tariff.

   Real-Time Financial Schedule: A Financial Schedule applicable only in the Real-Time Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market.

   Real-Time Intermittent Resource Forecast: The forecast for an Intermittent Resource. If a

          Market Participant chooses to submit this value, it must be submitted by the Market

          Participant prior to the Notification Deadline. If a Real-Time Intermittent Forecast is not

          submitted by then, it will be deemed to be equal to the Day-Ahead Schedule. A positive

          number represents injection and a negative number is not allowed.

   Real-Time Load Zone Demand Forecast: An optional demand forecast for a Load Zone. If a

          Market Participant chooses to submit this value, it must be submitted by the Market

          Participant prior to the Notification Deadline. If a Real-Time Load Zone Demand

          Forecast is not submitted, it will be deemed to be equal to the Day-Ahead Schedule.

   Real-Time Financial Schedule For Deviations: Real-Time Financial Schedules where the

          scheduled MW volumes are included in determining deviations for the Real-Time




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                             72.0.0


          Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge and Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge.

   Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payment (RTORSGP): The real-time make-

          whole payment provided under Section 40.3.5 of this Tariff to the Resources described

          therein, when the sum of revenue from Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Hourly

          Real-Time Ex Post MCPs does not fully cover the incremental Energy Offer costs and

          Operating Reserve Costs of such Resources.

   Real Time Offers: Offers submitted for use in the Real Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, the Reliability Assessment Commitment, or the LAC.

   Real Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge: The sum of the Real Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour in the Day allocated to Market Participants in

          that Hour pursuant to the calculations specified in Sections 40.3.3.2 of this Tariff.

   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge: The sum of the

          Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour allocated to Market

          Participants for Resources committed in any RAC process or the LAC process for an

          Active Transmission Constraint and not otherwise attributable to Topology Adjustment

          and Transmission De-rates.

   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit: A Resource credit guaranteed by the

          Transmission Provider ensuring the minimum recovery of the Production Cost and

          Operating Reserve Cost of a Resource that has been committed and scheduled by the

          Transmission Provider in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge: The sum




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                    1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                               72.0.0


          of the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour allocated to Market

          Participants for Resources committed in any RAC process or the LAC process and not

          otherwise: (1) collected via the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint

          Management Charge, or (2) collected via the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability Charge, or (3) attributable to

          Headroom, Topology Adjustment and Transmission De-rates.

   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Full Payment Criteria: A set of conditions a

          Resource must satisfy in order to be eligible for the full amount of Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credit. In the event that a Resource fails the full payment criteria,

          it will be subject to a reduced Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit.

   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge: Those Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits allocated to Market Participants in an Hour associated

          with Headroom.

   Reasonable Efforts: Any action required to be made, attempted, or taken by a Party under this

          Tariff in the exercise of “Reasonable Efforts,” such efforts as are timely and consistent

          with Good Utility Practices that would be undertaken for the protection of its own

          interests under the conditions affecting such action, including but not limited to the

          amount of notice of the need to take such action and the duration and type of such action.

   Receivable Security Interest: A continuing first-priority security interest to the Transmission

          Provider in all right, title and interest in any and all accounts receivable and other rights

          of payment of the Tariff Customer for goods and services provided under, or otherwise

          arising under, pursuant to or in connection with, the Tariff and/or any of the Agreements.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                 1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                            72.0.0




   Receiving Party: The entity receiving the Capacity and Energy transmitted by the Transmission

          Provider to Point(s) of Delivery.

   Reciprocal Coordinated Flowgate (RCF): A Coordinated Flowgate with respect to which a

          reciprocal agreement has been written and to which the reciprocal coordination

          procedures of the CMP apply. A RCF may be under the operational control of the

          Transmission Provider, a Coordination Customer, or a third party Reciprocal Entity.

   Reciprocal Entity: Shall be as defined in Section 7, Appendix A of the Congestion Management

          Process (Master) set forth in Attachment LL of the Tariff.

   Reference Bus: The location(s), on the Transmission Provider Region, relative to which

          mathematical quantities relating to physical operation will be calculated.

   Reference Levels: In the context of Module D, calculations intended to reflect a Resource’s

          marginal costs, including Legitimate Risk and Opportunity Costs.

   Reference Year: The year that is used by the Transmission Provider for the determination of

          initial ARR Zones and ARR Entitlements.

   Regional Entity (RE): Midwest Reliability Organization (MRO), ReliabilityFirst Corporation

          (RFC), SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC), or any successor organizations to these

          entities or any other entity approved by the Commission as an RE.

   Regional Transmission Group (RTG): A voluntary organization of Transmission Owners,

          Users and other entities approved by the Commission to efficiently coordinate

          transmission planning (and expansion), operation and use on a regional (and

          interregional) basis.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                 1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                            72.0.0


   Regulating Capacity Offer: The price, in dollars per MW per Hour, at which a Regulation

          Qualified Resource has agreed to sell Regulating Reserve.

   Regulating Mileage: The absolute value of the up and down movement, in MW, of a Resource

          in response to Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction.

   Regulating Mileage Cost: The cost to supply Regulating Mileage based on the Regulating

          Mileage Offers.

   Regulating Mileage Market Clearing Price: The clearing price for Regulating Mileage in the

          Transmission Provider Region. It is used to pay for Additional Regulating Mileage in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Regulating Mileage Offer: The price, in dollars per MW, at which a Regulation Qualified

          Resource has agreed to sell Regulating Mileage.

   Regulating Mileage Target: The Instructed Regulating Mileage of a Resource adjusted to

          reflect its actual output at the beginning of a Dispatch Interval.

   Regulating Reserve: Capacity held in reserve by a frequency responsive Generation Resource,

          External Asynchronous Resource, Electric Storage Resource, Demand Response

          Resource-Type II, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource for the purpose of

          providing Regulating Reserve Deployment in both the up and down direction.

   Regulating Reserve Deployment: The utilization of Regulating Reserve to automatically and

          continuously adjust Resource output to manage the MISO Balancing Authority Area in

          accordance with Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Regulating Reserve Market Clearing Price: The clearing price for Regulating Reserve,

          considering Resources' Regulating Total Cost, at a given Commercial Pricing Node in the




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                           72.0.0


          Transmission Provider Region, which shall be equivalent to the marginal cost of meeting

          the Zonal and Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement and delivering Zonal

          Regulating Reserve to the Reference Bus, while meeting the Zonal and Market-Wide

          Contingency Reserve Requirement, the requirement that zonal Contingency Reserve be

          deliverable to the Reference Bus, and system demand requirements.

   Regulating Service: Regulating Service is the Regulating Reserve and Regulating Mileage that

          is used for Regulating Reserve Deployment.

   Regulating Total Cost: The total price, in dollars per MW per Hour, used to clear Regulating

          Reserve in the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

          Regulating Total Cost includes the cost of providing a MW of Regulating Reserve

          capacity for an Hour and deploying the MW of Regulating Reserve capacity at the

          Market-wide Regulating Mileage Deployment Ratio during each Dispatch Interval in that

          Hour. A Resource's Regulating Total cost is calculated as its Regulating Mileage Offer

          multiplied by the Market-wide Regulating Mileage Deployment Ratio and the number of

          Dispatch Intervals in an Hour plus the Resource's Regulating Capacity Offer.

   Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: The maximum price permitted for Regulating Total Cost in

          the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Regulation Capability: The ability of a Resource or Resources to provide and deploy

          Regulating Reserve.

   Regulation Deployment Adjustment: The Settlement of Regulation Reserve Deployment as

          defined under Section 40.3.3.1.a.v.

   Regulation Deployment Instruction: The Setpoint Instruction associated with Regulating




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                    1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                               72.0.0


          Reserve Deployment.

   Regulation Qualified Resource: A Generation Resource, External Asynchronous Resource,

          Electric Storage Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource that has met the requirements to be eligible to provide Regulating

          Service by submitting Regulating Capacity Offers and Regulating Mileage Offers into the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Regulation Response Time: The maximum amount of time allowed for a Resource output to

          move from zero Regulating Reserve Deployment to the full amount of Regulating

          Reserve cleared in the up direction or to move from zero Regulating Reserve Deployment

          to the full amount of Regulating Reserve cleared in the down direction.

   Relevant Electric Retail Regulatory Authority (RERRA): An entity that has jurisdiction over

          and establishes prices and/or policies for providers of retail electric service to end-

          customers, such as the city council for a municipal utility, the governing board of a

          cooperative utility, the state public utility commission or any other such entity.

   Request for Proposals (RFP): An invitation, including associated requirements, for Qualified

          Transmission Developers to submit Proposals to construct, implement, own, operate,

          maintain, repair, and restore a Competitive Transmission Project.

   Reliability Based Demand Curve (RBDC): A smoothed curve representation of the value of

          reliability changes expressed in $/MW-day as incremental/decremental MW changes are

          made to the quantity of capacity demanded, for each Season based on the MRI Curves.

   Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out (RBDC Opt Out): A plan submitted by an LSE to the

          Transmission Provider that is accepted by the Transmission Provider which demonstrates




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                             72.0.0


          that the LSE has sufficient ZRCs to meet all of its Final PRMR for one or more LRZs in

          all Seasons.

   Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out Adder (RBDC Opt Out Adder): A percent quantity

          that is equal to or greater than zero, in addition to the PRM that an LSE selecting the

          RBDC Opt Out must meet to fulfill its RAR for each Season.

   Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out Deficiency Charge (RBDC Opt Out Deficiency

          Charge): A charge that is assessed to an LSE that has elected to use the RBDC Opt Out

          and fails to meet its Final PRMR for each Season.

   Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out Lock-In Period (RBDC Opt Out Lock-In Period):

          The minimum period of time that an LSE must meet its Final PRMR through the RBDC

          Opt Out.

   Reliability Coordination Customer: Any entity taking Reliability Coordination Service under

          Part I of Module F of the Tariff.

   Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities: The transmission facilities of a

          Reliability Coordination Customer included in the Bulk Electric System.

   Reliability Coordination Invoiced Exposure (RCIE): All Schedule 31 charges associated with

          Reliability Coordination Service under Part I of Module F that have been invoiced but not

          yet paid.

   Reliability Coordination Measured Exposure (RCME): All Schedule 31 charges associated

          with Reliability Coordination Service under Part I of Module F that have been measured

          but not yet paid.

   Reliability Coordination Service: The services provided pursuant to Part I of Module F.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                             72.0.0


   Reliability Coordination Technical Committee: The technical committee established pursuant

          to Section 78 of the Tariff for the purpose of providing information and recommendations

          to the Transmission Provider regarding Reliability Coordination Service under Module F.

   Reliability Plan: A plan of the Transmission Provider, on file with the NERC, that explains how

          reliability coordination will be accomplished.

   Reliability Assessment Commitment (RAC): A process conducted prior to the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market, following the posting of results for the Day-

          Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market but prior to the Operating Day, and during

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market by which the Transmission

          Provider ensures that sufficient Resources will be available and on line to meet Load,

          Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

          Reserve, and other demand requirements in the Operating Day.

   Reliability Coordinator: Entities responsible for ensuring the real-time operating reliability of

          the interconnected bulk electric transmission system within the Reliability Coordinator

          Area.

   Reliability Coordinator Area: The Transmission Provider Region, which is also the portion of

          the interconnected bulk electric transmission system subject to reliability oversight by the

          Transmission Provider.

   Remote Self-Supply: The netting of positive net generation output from Generation Owner’s

          remotely located Facility(ies) against Station Power Load at a Facility.

   Rescheduling Costs: Reasonable and explicit additional costs including costs, such as labor and

          equipment rental costs, as well as direct and verifiable replacement Energy costs of a




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                           72.0.0


          Generation Resource under Attachment BB, that have been incurred by the Generation

          Resource solely as a result of the Transmission Provider’s rescheduling the Generator

          Planned Outage under Attachment BB or a Transmission Outage under Attachment JJ.

   Reserve Scarcity: A market-wide and/or zonal deficiency of one or more types of Operating

          Reserve.

   Reserve Sharing: An arrangement between two or more entities to share the provision of

          Operating Reserve in response to a loss of a Generation Resource.

   Reserve Sharing Group: An arrangement between two or more entities to share the provision of

          Operating Reserve in response to a loss of a Resource or other contingency event.

   Reserve Zone: A specific group of Resource, Load and Interface CPNodes where a minimum

          Operating Reserve requirement is established through Reserve Zone Configuration

          Studies as described in Section 39.2.1A.d of this Tariff.

   Reserve Zone Configuration Studies: Studies that establish the number of Reserve Zones and

          the assignment of Resources, Loads and/or Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes to specific

          Reserve Zones.

   Reserve Zone Hourly Ex Post LMP: The load-weighted Hourly Ex Post LMP for a Reserve

          Zone.

   Reserved Capacity: The maximum amount of Capacity and Energy that the Transmission

          Provider agrees to transmit for the Transmission Customer over the Transmission

          Provider’s Transmission System between the Point(s) of Receipt and the Point(s) of

          Delivery under Module B of this Tariff. Reserved Capacity shall be expressed in terms

          of whole MW on a sixty (60) minute interval (commencing on the clock hour) basis.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                 1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                            72.0.0


   Reserved Source Point(s) (RSP): Resources historically used by a Market Participant to serve

          Load in an ARR Zone.

   Residual Load: The result of a calculation used to determine the amount of over or under

          claimed Load in a Local Balancing Authority Area. The calculation determines the

          difference between: (i) the reported amount of Actual Energy Injections and Net Actual

          Interchange for the Local Balancing Authority; and (ii) the amount of State Estimator

          determined Losses and the reported amount of Actual Energy Withdrawals for the Local

          Balancing Authority Area. Residual Load is then used to reduce or increase the reported

          volume of the Residual Load Zone for that Local Balancing Authority Area.

   Residual Load Zone: The single Commercial Pricing Node identified by the Transmission

          Provider in a Local Balancing Authority Area where any calculated Residual Load is

          allocated for the purpose of Settlements.

   Resource: Either a Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type I, Demand

          Response Resource-Type II, Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, Intermittent Resource,

          Electric Storage Resource, External Asynchronous Resource, or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource.

   Resource Adequacy Requirements (RAR): The planning reserve procedures and requirements

          located in Sections 68 up to, but not including, Section 70 of this Tariff and the Business

          Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy that ensure there are adequate Planning

          Resources available to enable LSEs to reliably serve Load.

   Resource Outage Index: The ratio of the maximum quantity (MW) of resources available each

          day to the maximum quantity of resources available across all days during the year. The




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                             72.0.0


          Resource Outage Index is a set of daily values, between 0 and 1, where the value 1 is the

          ratio on the day(s) of maximum resource availability; smaller values represent lesser

          availabilities.

   Resource Plan: The annual and monthly plan made by an LSE to meet its RAR obligations.

   Resource Plan Deadline: The first day of the month prior to each Month for which there exists

          an RAR obligation.

   Resource Qualification Requirements: The conditions that a Resource must meet to be eligible

          for inclusion as a Reserved Source Point in the BRSS or PRSS.

   Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status: A specification submitted by a

          Market Participant in its Generation Offer for each hour to indicate whether the

          Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or

          Down Ramp Capability on the Resource for the Hour.

   Resource-Specific Uplift Report: A monthly report containing the Resource name, total amount

          of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

          Guarantee Credits, Day-Ahead Margin Assurance Payments, and Real-Time Offer

          Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments paid in dollars, aggregated across the month,

          to each Resource that received uplift payments.

   Retire: The permanent cessation of operation of a Generation Resource or SCU after a specified

          date that is provided to the Transmission Provider, consistent with the requirements in

          Section 38.2.7 and Attachment X.

   Revenue Bonds: Bonds issued by a Joint Action Agency or municipality to finance a project,

          projects, or system, that are repaid using the revenues generated by the project, projects,




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                 1.R
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - R
MODULES                                                                                            72.0.0


          or system.

   Revenue Neutrality Uplift: The mechanism through which the Transmission Provider refunds

          excess revenues collected to Market Participants or collects revenue deficiencies from

          Market Participants.

   RFP Respondent(s): One or more Qualified Transmission Developer(s) involved in a Proposal

          submitted to the Transmission Provider in response to a Request for Proposals.

   RSP Utilization Factor: RSP Utilization Factor corresponds to the percentage of hours that an

          RSP was on-line for the following test period: (a) for parties joining the Second Planning

          Area in 2013 or 2014 only, during the period June 1, 2010 through May 31, 2012 (b) for

          all other parties, during the Reference Year and the two (2) years previous to the

          Reference Year.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                    1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


   Sample Membership Agreement: The document that establishes the rights and obligations

          between the Electric Generation and Transmission Cooperative (Coop) and its members.

   Scarcity Price: The LMP and MCP price levels determined by Demand Curves when

          insufficient Operating Reserves or Short-Term Reserves are cleared to meet the

          Operating Reserve or Short-Term Reserve requirements, respectively.

   Schedule 16 Costs: The monthly charge of costs to be recovered under Schedule 16 of this

          Tariff shall include any deferred pre-operating costs, direct and indirect capital costs,

          direct and indirect operating expenses and all other costs associated with administrating

          the Financial Transmission Rights Administrative Service under this Tariff.

   Schedule 17 Costs: The costs to be recovered under Schedule 17 of this Tariff shall include any

          deferred pre-operating costs, direct and indirect capital costs, direct and indirect operating

          expenses and all other costs associated with administering the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market Support Administrative Service under this Tariff.

   Scheduled Injections: Energy scheduled in the Day Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market to be injected over an Hour of the Operating Day.

   Scheduled Withdrawals: Energy withdrawals scheduled in the Day Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market over a given Hour of the Operating Day.

   Scheduling Agent: An entity designated by a Market Participant that has the authority to

          conduct business in the Transmission Provider Region on behalf of the Market

          Participant.

   Scheduling Instructions: Directives issued by the Transmission Provider to Market Participants

          with Load Modifying Resources indicating MW quantities to be reduced.




                                                                              Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                   1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                             82.0.0


   SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation: The period beginning when a Resource is synchronized

          to the Facilities within the MISO Balancing Authority Area in response to the

          Transmission Provider selecting the Resource in the unit commitment portion of the

          SCUC process and ends at the later of: (i) the time incorporating the sum of the time

          when the Resource is synchronized and the Resource’s Minimum Run Time and (ii) the

          earlier of the time the Resource is forced out of service or the time when the

          Transmission Provider notifies the Market Participant that the Resource is no longer

          needed. The SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation cannot extend beyond the Operating

          Day.

   Seams Operating Agreement: An agreement between adjacent balancing authorities or

          transmission providers for the coordination of operations, including joint operating

          agreements.

   Season: The four (4) seasons are (i) Winter – December, January, February; (ii) Spring –

          March, April, May; (iii) Summer – June, July, August; and (iv) Fall – September,

          October, November.

   Seasonal Accredited Capacity (SAC): The amount of accredited Capacity, for a given Season,

          in MW, assigned to a Planning Resource that is convertible to Zonal Resource Credits.

   SEC: Securities and Exchange Commission.

   Second Planning Area: The area of the Transmission Provider Region where Entergy

          Corporation and its Operating Companies that own and/or operate transmission facilities

          (i.e., located in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, or Texas) that are conveyed to the

          functional control of the Transmission Provider to provide Transmission Service pursuant




                                                                             Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                     1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                               82.0.0


          to Module B of the Tariff. The Second Planning Area shall be formed when the first

          Entergy Operating Company conveys functional control of its transmission facilities to

          the Transmission Provider, and may be expanded if other Entergy Operating Companies

          or adjacent utilities in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi or Texas, join MISO later in the

          Second Planning Area’s Transition Period.

   Second Planning Area's Transition Period: The period: (i) commencing when the first

          Entergy Operating Company conveys functional control of its transmission facilities to

          the Transmission Provider to provide Transmission Service under Module B of this

          Tariff; (ii) consisting of at least five consecutive (5) years, plus the time needed to

          complete the MTEP approval cycle pending at the end of the fifth year; (iii) ending on the

          day after the conclusion of such MTEP approval cycle, which in no case shall be more

          than six years after the start of that period; and (iv) during which the Transmission

          Provider shall review and compare the current states of the transmission systems in the

          First Planning Area and the Second Planning Area and, if a lack of comparability is

          found, shall identify transmission projects necessary to achieve comparability. The

          processes for identifying transmission projects necessary to achieve comparability and

          allocating costs associated with the projects that are so identified during the Second

          Planning Area’s Transition Period are set forth in Attachment FF-6.

   Security Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED): An algorithm capable of clearing,

          dispatching, and pricing Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in a simultaneously co-optimized basis that

          minimizes Production Costs and Operating Reserve Costs while enforcing multiple




                                                                               Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


          security constraints. The algorithm keeps the commitment of Resources fixed in the

          dispatch. The model is described in Schedule 29.

   Security Constrained Economic Dispatch Pricing (SCED-Pricing): An algorithm capable of

          clearing, dispatching, and pricing Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

          Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in a simultaneously co-optimized basis

          that minimizes Production Costs and Operating Reserve Costs while enforcing multiple

          security constraints. The model is described in Schedule 29A.

   Security Constrained Unit Commitment (SCUC): An algorithm capable of committing

          Resources to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve on simultaneously co-optimized basis that minimizes

          Capacity costs while enforcing multiple security constraints.

   Selected Developer(s): The RFP Respondent(s) identified in the Selected Proposal. Selected

          Developers shall not include Proposal Participants.

   Selected Developer Agreement (SDA): An agreement, in the form provided in Appendix 1 of

          Attachment FF of the Tariff, between a Selected Developer, including existing

          Transmission Owners, ITCs, and Non-owner Members, and the Transmission Provider

          establishing the terms and conditions under which the Selected Developer will construct

          and implement the Competitive Transmission Facilities specified in its Selected Proposal.

          Among other terms, the Selected Developer Agreement shall include any binding cost

          control measures, including cost caps, which the Selected Developer specified in its

          Selected Proposal.

   Selected Proposal: The Proposal selected for implementation by the Competitive Transmission




                                                                           Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


          Executive Committee, pursuant to Attachment FF of the Tariff.

   Self Schedule: The designation by a Market Participant of a specific amount of Energy and/or

          Operating Reserve and/or capacity to be supplied from a specific Resource or Planning

          Resource as a Price Taker.

   Self-Scheduled Resource: A Resource that is scheduled by a Market Participant and controlled

          by the same Market Participant under the overall coordination of the Transmission

          Provider. A Self-Scheduled Resource is a Price Taker for the portion of the Resource

          that is Self Scheduled.

   Service Agreement: The initial agreement and any amendments or supplements thereto entered

          into by the Tariff Customer and the Transmission Provider for service under this Tariff,

          including, without limitation, any service agreement executed pursuant to Section 27A

          (an HVDC Service Agreement), Module F, and Attachment KK of the Tariff.

   Service Commencement Date: The date the Transmission Provider or ITC begins to provide

          service pursuant to the terms of an executed Service Agreement, or the date the

          Transmission Provider or ITC begins to provide service in accordance with Section 15.3

          or Section 29.1 under this Tariff.

   Setpoint Instruction: The real-time desired MW output signal calculated for a specific Resource

          by the Transmission Provider’s control system on a specified periodicity that is equal to

          the current Energy Dispatch Target plus the Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction

          (which may be positive or negative) plus an adjustment to the Energy Dispatch Target to

          account for Contingency Reserve Deployment Instructions. The Setpoint Instruction

          represents the desired output level of the Resource.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


   Settlement: The process of determining charges to be paid to or by a Market Participant in the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets operated by the Transmission Provider under this

          Tariff.

   Settlement Statements: Reports provided by the Transmission Provider to Market Participants

          containing some aggregate and some detailed charge type information and determinant

          data regarding financial obligations for Energy and Operating Reserve Market activities

          and services, allowing for the verification by the Market Participant of Settlements

          invoiced amounts.

   Shadow Price: The marginal value of relieving a particular constraint.

   Shortfall Amount: The difference between a Resource’s Contingency Reserve Deployment

          Instruction and the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed by that Resource at

          the end of the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period; or the difference between a

          Resource’s Economic Minimum Dispatch and the Actual Energy Injection of the

          Resource at the end of the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period.

   Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service: Firm Point To Point Transmission

          Service under Module B of this Tariff with a term of less than one (1) Year.

   Short-Term High-Voltage Direct Current Service: HVDC Service under Section 27A of this

          Tariff with a term of less than one (1) year.

   Short-Term Reserve: Rampable Capacity provided by eligible Resources available to the

          Transmission Provider to be converted to Energy within the Short-Term Reserve

          Deployment Period to address market-wide, sub-regional and/or local short-term needs

          for reserves as specified in Schedule 51 of this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                 1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                           82.0.0


   Short-Term Reserve Deployment Failure Charge: A charge assessed to any Resource that fails

          to achieve the Economic Minimum Dispatch within a Short-Term Reserve Deployment

          Period. Resources that clear Off-Line Short-Term Reserve will be made available for

          Operator commitment as a part of the Transmission Provider’s Look Ahead Commitment

          process.

   Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period: The thirty (30)-minute period of time within which the

          Resource must deploy Short-Term Reserve following the issuance of a Short-Term

          Reserve Deployment Instruction. The Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period is also the

          duration of time beyond the Resource Dispatch Target time that is used to determine on-

          line Resource participation capabilities for the Short-Term Reserve product.

   Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status: A specification submitted by a Market Participant in its

          Generation Offer for each hour to indicate whether the Transmission Provider is

          authorized to economically clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour.

          Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and Not

          Participating.

   Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource: A Generation Resource that is not a Dispatchable

          Intermittent Resource, an Intermittent Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II,

          or External Asynchronous Resource that has met the requirements to be eligible to

          provide Short-Term Reserve, and an Electric Storage Resource that has met the

          requirements to be eligible to provide online Short-Term Reserve, by submitting a Short-

          Term Reserve Dispatch Status other than "Not Participating" and/or is an Off-Line Short-

          Term Reserve Qualified Resource.




                                                                           Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                 1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                           82.0.0


   Short-Term Reserve Requirements: The Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirement, Sub-

          Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements, and Local Short-Term Reserve

          Requirements.

   Shut-Down Offer: The compensation required by a Market Participant for reducing the

          consumption of a Demand Response Resource Type-I.

   Shut-Down Notification Time: The amount of notification time required by a Demand

          Response Resource-Type I prior to the initiation of demand reduction procedures.

   Shut-Down Time: The time required for a Demand Resource participating as a Demand

          Response Resource – Type I or Load Modifying Resource to reduce consumption equal

          to its Targeted Demand Reduction Level or Firm Service Level.

   Significant Trade Reference: Trade reference provided to Transmission Provider in the

          registration process which are of a significant nature, as determined by Transmission

          Provider in its sole discretion.

   Simultaneous Feasibility Test: A test for a state in which each set of injections and withdrawals

          associated with receipt point-to-delivery point FTRs and ARRs, and power transfers

          associated with FTRs and ARRs, would not exceed any thermal, voltage, or stability

          limits within the Transmission Provider Region under normal operating conditions or for

          monitored contingencies.

   Single-Developer Proposal: A Proposal submitted by a single RFP Respondent that would

          become the sole Selected Developer for the Competitive Transmission Project, should its

          Single-Developer Proposal be designated as the Selected Proposal by the Transmission

          Provider.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                          82.0.0


   Single-Directional-Down Ramp Rate Curve: The MW/minute ramp rate curve, that may

          include up to ten (10) linear segments at which a Generation Resource or Demand

          Response Resource-Type II can respond to the Setpoint Instructions in the downward

          direction only.

   Single-Directional-Up Ramp Rate Curve: The MW/minute ramp rate curve, that may include

          up to ten (10) linear segments, at which a Generation Resource or Demand Response

          Resource-Type II can respond to the Setpoint Instructions in the upward direction only.

   Sink Point: The Commercial Pricing Node at which a Financial Schedule terminates.

   Source Point: The Commercial Pricing Node at which a Financial Schedule originates.

   Southern State Agreement Projects (“SSAP”): Network Upgrades developed and evaluated as

          part of the Transmission Provider’s Order 1920 long-term regional transmission planning

          (Long Range Transmission Planning (“LRTP”) or equivalent study) process, located

          solely in the MISO South subregion as defined by Attachment XX and are subject to the

          MISO South Cost Allocation State Agreement Process listed in Section FF.III.A.2.o of

          Attachment FF.

   Spin Qualified Resource: A Generation Resource, an External Asynchronous Resource, a

          Demand Response Resource-Type I, a Demand Response Resource-Type II, or an

          Electric Storage Resource that has met the requirements to be eligible to submit Spinning

          Reserve Offers into the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Spinning Reserve: A specified percentage, based on Applicable Reliability Standards, of

          Contingency Reserve that must be synchronized to the Transmission System and that

          meets all Applicable Reliability Standards, and that can be converted to Energy within




                                                                           Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                    1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


          the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period following a deployment instruction.

   Spinning Reserve Offer: The price, in dollars per MW per Hour, at which a Spin Qualified

          Resource has agreed to sell Spinning Reserve. The price shall reflect the costs required

          for the Spin Qualified Resource to be made available to provide Spinning Reserve; and

          may also include a dollar component reflecting an expectation of any Incremental Energy

          Costs, or costs in Shut-Down Offers and/or Hourly Curtailment Offers with respect to

          Demand Response Resource – Type I, that might exceed market revenues when the Spin

          Qualified Resource follows a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction.

   Start-Up Notification Time: The amount of notification time required by a Generation Resource

          prior to the initiation of start-up procedures or the amount of notification time required

          for a Demand Response Resource Type II, or Electric Storage Resource prior to the

          initiation of demand reduction procedures, from a hot state, intermediate state and cold

          state.

   Start Up Offer: The compensation required by a Market Participant for bringing an off line

          Generation Resource on line or for reducing consumption of a Demand Response

          Resource-Type II, or Electric Storage Resource.

   Start-Up Time: The number of Hours required to start a Generation Resource, Demand

          Response Resource-Type II, LMR, or Electric Storage Resource and synchronize with

          the Transmission Provider Region to Hourly Economic Minimum Limit consistent with

          the Applicable Reliability Standards from a hot state, intermediate state or cold state.

   State Estimator: A software program used by the Transmission Provider to create a real time

          assessment of the condition of the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                              Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                      1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                                82.0.0


   State Estimator MWs: The megawatts that are determined by the State Estimator to be

          generated at a given location for each Dispatch Interval.

   State of Charge: The Energy, Capacity, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve and/or

          Regulating Reserve available to the Transmission Provider’s markets from an Electric

          Storage Resource.

   State Regulatory Authority: Any state entity, including the Council of the City of New Orleans,

          having jurisdiction over either retail electricity sales or distribution rates of transmission-

          owning members or transmission-dependent utility members of any state in the

          Transmission Provider Region. The term “State Regulatory Authority” does not include

          Native American Tribes, self-regulated public power utilities, cooperatives, non-

          jurisdictional transmission providers, customer interest groups, state utility consumer

          advocates, non-traditional state agencies, and local regulatory bodies, except the Council

          of the City of New Orleans.

   Statement of Support: A document that the Transmission Provider provides to Transmission

          Developer Applicants for submission with a Transmission Developer Application, which:

          (1) is executed by an Affiliate of a Transmission Developer Applicant; (2) lists specific

          qualifications, capabilities, and/or competencies that the Affiliate possesses and intends

          to make available to the Transmission Developer Applicant in order to assist the

          Transmission Developer Applicant with meeting one or more of the prequalification

          requirements set forth in Sections VIII.B.4, VIII.B.4.1, VIII.B.4.2, VIII.B.4.3, and/or

          VIII.B.4.4 of Attachment FF to the Tariff; and (3) authorizes the Transmission Developer

          Applicant to represent during the annual prequalification and recertification processes set




                                                                               Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                     1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                               82.0.0


          forth in Sections VIII.B.2 and VIII.B.3 of Attachment FF to the Tariff that such

          Transmission Developer Applicant will have access to the specified qualifications,

          capabilities, and/or competencies.

   Station Power: The Energy used for operating the electrical equipment on the site of a

          Generation Resource and/or for the lighting, heating, air-conditioning and office

          equipment needs of buildings located on the site of such a Generation Resource that are

          used in the operation, maintenance, or repair of the facility. Station Power does not

          include Energy (i) used for pumping at a pumped storage facility; (ii) to power

          synchronous condensers; (iii) in association with power system restoration or blackstart

          service, or (iv) used for charging an Electric Storage Resource. Station Power may only

          be provided pursuant to Schedule 20 of this Tariff.

   Statistical Measurement and Verification: A measurement and verification methodology that

          uses either a direct load control baseline, statistical interval baseline, or custom baseline

          applying a type of statistical technique approved by the Transmission Provider, and as set

          forth in Attachment TT.

   Storage As Transmission Only Asset (SATOA): An Electric Facility connected to or to be

          connected to the Transmission System and approved for inclusion in Appendix A of the

          MTEP, as a transmission facility that is part of the Transmission System, that is capable

          of receiving Energy from the Transmission System and storing Energy for injection to the

          Transmission System, and is operated only to support the Transmission System. The

          SATOA shall not participate in the Transmission Provider’s markets except to the extent

          necessary to receive Energy from the Transmission System and to inject Energy into the




                                                                               Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                               1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                         82.0.0


          Transmission System to provide the services for which the SATOA was included in the

          MTEP.

   Sub-Area: A portion of the MISO Balancing Authority Area identified by MISO as described in

          MISO’s emergency operating procedures, consisting of the entirety of one or more Local

          Balancing Authority Areas, or multiple Local Balancing Authority Areas comprising a

          sub-region, that may require the implementation of emergency actions to address

          Capacity shortage conditions.

   Sub-Region: One or more Reserve Zones, or any other portion of the MISO Balancing Authority

          Area limited by physical or contractual constraints, including Sub-Regional Power

          Balance Constraints, used to establish Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

   Sub-Regional Export Constraint (SREC): The amount of Planning Resources in megawatts

          modeled in the PRA for each Season within an applicable Sub-Regional Resource Zone

          (SRRZ) that can be cleared in excess of the total individual LRZ’s PRMR comprising the

          SRRZ in accordance with applicable seams agreements, coordination agreements, or

          transmission service agreements.

   Sub-Regional Import Constraint (SRIC): The amount of Planning Resources in megawatts

          modeled in the PRA for each Season, not within an applicable Sub-Regional Resource

          Zone (SRRZ), that can be cleared to meet the total PRMR of the individual LRZs

          comprising the SRRZ in accordance with applicable seams agreements, coordination

          agreements, or transmission service agreements.

   Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint: A net Energy injection and withdrawal constraint

          established to manage intra-regional flows in accordance with applicable seams




                                                                          Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                     1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                               82.0.0


          agreements, coordination agreements, transmission service agreements, or operating

          procedures.

   Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint Demand Curve: A demand curve used to price Sub-

          Regional Power Balance Constraints.

   Sub-Regional Resource Zone (SRRZ): A zone, comprised of a LRZ or combination of two or

          more LRZs, established by the Transmission Provider each Season for Resource

          Adequacy Requirements under Module E-1 to administer constraints in accordance with

          applicable seams agreements, coordination agreements, or transmission service

          agreements.

   Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve: Short-Term Reserve that is available to the Transmission

          Provider in a Sub-Region.

   Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements: The amount of Sub-Regional Short-Term

          Reserve, as determined pursuant to Module C of the Tariff, that the Transmission

          Provider is required to procure in a Sub-Region.

   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) Data: The electric system security data

          that is used to monitor the electrical state of facilities, as specified in NERC Policy 4.

   Supplemental Qualified Resource: A Spin Qualified Resource, or a Demand Response

          Resource-Type I or, a Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource Type-II,

          Electric Storage Resource, or External Asynchronous Resource that is not a Spin

          Qualified Resource that has met the requirements to be eligible to submit Supplemental

          Reserve Offers into the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   Supplemental Reserve: Contingency Reserve that is not considered Spinning Reserve that can




                                                                               Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                        1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                                  82.0.0


          be converted to Energy within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period and that

          meets all Applicable Reliability Standards.

   Supplemental Reserve Offer: The price, in dollars per MW per Hour, at which a Demand

          Response Resource Type I or an External Asynchronous Resource that is a Supplemental

          Reserve Qualified Resource has agreed to sell Supplemental Reserve.

   Suspend: The cessation of operation of a Generation Resource or an SCU for more than two (2)

          months commencing on a specified date that is provided to the Transmission Provider,

          that includes the right to rescind or modify the Attachment Y Notice for a period ending

          no later than thirty-six (36) months after the start date specified in an original (i.e. initial,

          first) Attachment Y Notice, consistent with the requirements in Section 38.2.7 and

          Attachment X.

   Synchronous Condenser Unit (SCU): A facility that can be synchronized to the Transmission

          Provider’s Transmission System without producing Energy.

   System Auction Clearing Price (System ACP): The marginal value (“shadow price”) associated

          with the system-wide Demand constraint for a Season. This Demand constraint ensures

          that the amount cleared, in all LRZs, is at least equal to the Final PRMR in all LRZs. The

          marginal value of this constraint provides a quantitative result of the value of obtaining

          the marginal MW from the non-export-constrained LRZ(s).

   System Condition: A specified condition on the Transmission System or on a neighboring

          transmission system, such as a constrained transmission element or flowgate, that may

          trigger Curtailment of Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service or Long-

          Term Firm HVDC Service using the curtailment priority pursuant to Section 13.6 or




                                                                                 Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                    1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                              82.0.0


          27A.1.5 of this Tariff, respectively. Such conditions must be identified in the

          Transmission Customer’s Service Agreement or HVDC Service Agreement.

   System Impact Study: An assessment by the Transmission Provider and ITC, as applicable, of

          (i) the adequacy of the Transmission System to accommodate a request for either Firm

          Point-To-Point Transmission Service or Network Integration Transmission Service and

          (ii) whether any additional costs may be incurred in order to provide Transmission

          Service. System Impact Studies for any transmission facilities not under the operational

          control of the Transmission Provider or ITC shall be performed by the Transmission

          Owner or applicable ITC Participant or any entity the Transmission Provider designates

          to perform the studies.

   System Losses: The transmission losses experienced on the Transmission System as determined

          by the Network Model.

   System Operating Limit (SOL): The value (such as MW) that satisfies the most limiting of the

          prescribed operating criteria for a specified system configuration to ensure operation

          within acceptable reliability criteria. Also referred to as Operating Security Limit.

   System Purchase Contracts: Agreements for the purchase of Energy that do not specify the

          Resource(s) that the seller shall select to supply such Energy at any particular time;

          provided, however, that such agreements may identify the group of Resources from

          which the seller may make its selection; provided, further that this term does not include

          agreements with Manitoba Hydro involving the supply of Energy from resources in

          Canada up to or at the U.S. border.

   System Restoration Plans: The plans developed by the individual Transmission Operators, and




                                                                             Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                  1.S
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - S
MODULES                                                                                            82.0.0


          coordinated by the Transmission Provider acting in its capacity as the Reliability

          Coordinator, to enable a system restoration zone to re-energize the Transmission System

          following a system-wide blackout.

   System Support Resource (SSR): Generation Resources or Synchronous Condenser Units that

          have been identified in Attachment Y – Notification to this Tariff and are required by the

          Transmission Provider for reliability purposes, to be operated in accordance with the

          procedures described in Section 38.2.7 of this Tariff.

   SSR Agreement: An agreement identified as Attachment Y 1 to this Tariff that the Transmission

          Provider, the owner or operator of an SSR Unit executes to provide the terms and

          conditions under which the SSR Unit will be operated and compensated.

   SSR Notification: The form in Attachment Y of this Tariff that the owner or operator of a

          Generation Resource or a Synchronous Condenser Unit must complete and send to the

          Transmission Provider prior to Retiring or Suspending any Generation Resource or

          Synchronous Condenser Unit located within the Transmission Provider Region,

          consistent with the requirements in Section 38.2.7.

   SSR Unit: A Generation Resource or a Synchronous Condenser Unit that is operated and

          compensated in accordance with an SSR Agreement.




                                                                            Effective On: June 12, 2028
MISO                                                                                                 1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


   Tangible Net Worth: All assets (excluding any intangible assets such as goodwill) less all

          liabilities (calculated in accordance with GAAP). Any such calculation may be revised

          by Transmission Provider upon review of the available financial information.

   Target Allocation: A payment or charge to FTR Holders consistent with the Cost of Congestion

          in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Targeted Appendix A Project: The preferred solution to one or more Transmission Issues

           consistent with Attachment FF, Section I.C.1.b.i.e and recommended by MISO staff for

           inclusion in Appendix A of the current year MTEP.

   Targeted Demand Reduction Level: The amount of demand reduction in MW that can be

          provided: (i) by a Demand Response Resource-Type I in response to a Contingency

          Reserve Deployment Instruction or Energy Commitment within the Contingency Reserve

          Deployment Period; or (ii) by a Load Modifying Resource backed by a Demand

          Resource in response to a Scheduling Instruction issued by the Transmission Provider.

   Targeted Monthly Recovery Amount (TMRA): The dollar target for recovery under the

          Schedule 10 ISO Cost Recovery Adder for each month based on the Transmission

          Provider’s budgeted costs or forecasted costs to be recovered under Schedule 10 for that

          month exclusive of the costs to be recovered under Schedule 10-D and Schedule 10-G;

          and a true-up amount from the prior month, as provided in Schedule 10.

   Tariff: Shall mean the Open Access Transmission, Energy and Operating Reserve Markets

          Tariff, including all schedules or attachments thereto, of the Transmission Provider as

          amended from time to time. The term Tariff shall endure to include any successor tariff

          or rate schedule approved by the Commission.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                     1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                               44.0.0


   Tariff Customer: A Market Participant, Transmission Customer or Coordination Customer.

   Third-Party Sale: Any sale for resale, in interstate commerce, to a Power Purchaser that is not

          designated as part of Network Load under Network Integration Transmission Service.

   Third-Party Supply: The provision of Station Power for a Facility net of On-Site Self-Supply

          and Remote Self-Supply or instead of On-Site Self Supply and Remote Self-Supply,

          pursuant to an applicable retail rate or tariff.

   Through Schedule: An Interchange Schedule in which both the Point of Receipt and Point of

          Delivery are external to the Transmission Provider Region.

   Tolerance Band: The band within which there is no Excessive Energy or Deficient Energy

          calculated.

   Topology Adjustment: Any positive adjustment due to the combined effect of incremental loop

          flow and topology changes occurring during the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   Total Credit Limit: The amount of any Unsecured Credit approved by Transmission Provider

          for Applicant and/or Tariff Customer, plus the amount of any Financial Security less any

          Financial Security restricted for alternative capitalization as defined in Section III of

          Attachment L to this Tariff approved by Transmission Provider and provided by the

          Applicant and/or Tariff Customer to Transmission Provider.

   Total Forecast Peak Load: The sum of the forecast Network Integration Transmission Service,

          peak Load for the upcoming allocation period plus peak Load served by Option A –

          Grandfathered Agreements plus peak Load served by Option B – Grandfathered

          Agreements.




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                    1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                              44.0.0


   Total FTR Obligations: The sum of FTR Potential Exposure and FTR Auction Credit

          Allocation.

   Total Multi-Value Project Benefit-to-Cost Ratio: The benefit-to-cost ratio associated with a

          specific Multi Value Project proposed to generate economic value and defined as the

          ratio of the present value of the total financially quantifiable benefit of the Multi Value

          Project evaluated over the first twenty years of the Multi Value Project's life to the

          present value of the annual revenue requirements of the Multi Value Project evaluated

          over the first twenty years of the Multi Value Project's life.

   Total Potential Exposure: The sum of exposure values as defined in Section V of Attachment L

          to this Tariff.

   Total Transfer Capability (TTC): The amount of electric power that can be moved or

          transferred reliably from one area to another area of the interconnected transmission

          systems by way of all transmission lines (or paths) between those areas under specified

          system conditions.

   Transition Period: The six (6) year period beginning February 1, 2002, the first day the

          Transmission Provider began providing Transmission Service, and ending January 31,

          2008, the last day of the sixth year after the Transmission Provider began providing

          Transmission Service.

   Transitional Auction Clearing Price (Transitional ACP): The auction clearing price resulting

          from a Transitional Planning Resource Auction pursuant to Section 69A.11.9.b.

   Transmission Charges: The revenue collected by the Transmission Provider under this Tariff

          related to Transmission Service, including the revenue collected for amounts billed under




                                                                           Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                            44.0.0


          Module B, Schedule 26-A, Schedule 31, and Part I of Module F. Transmission Charges

          include, but are not limited to, Transmission Trust Revenues.

   Transmission Charges Collection Agent: The Transmission Provider in its capacity as custodial

          agent for the collection of Transmission Charges, consistent with the provisions of

          Section 6A.

   Transmission Congestion Credit: The allocated share of total transmission congestion charges

          credited to each FTR Holder.

   Transmission Congestion Credit Target Allocation: A quantity in dollars equal to the Marginal

          Congestion Component at an FTR source and sink, times the FTR MW quantity for the

          settlement interval.

   Transmission Congestion Payment: A payment to FTR Holders equal to the Transmission

          Congestion Credit Target Allocation for that Hour.

   Transmission Constraint Demand Curve (TCDC): A curve used to price a transmission

          constraint during a dispatch interval in which the transmission constraint cannot be

          managed within its binding limit using the Security Constrained Economic Dispatch

          (SCED) engine.

   Transmission Customer: Any Eligible Customer (or its Designated Agent) that (i) executes a

          Service Agreement, or (ii) requests in writing that the Transmission Provider file with the

          Commission, a proposed unexecuted Service Agreement to receive Transmission Service

          under Module B of this Tariff. This term is used in the Module A, Common Tariff

          Provisions to include customers receiving Transmission Service under Module B of this

          Tariff, including any customer receiving HVDC Service.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                 1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


   Transmission Delivery Service Projects: New Transmission Access Projects needed to provide

          new Point To Point Transmission Service under Module B of the Tariff. The costs of

          Transmission Delivery Service projects shall be assigned and recovered in accordance

          with Attachment N to the Tariff.

   Transmission De-rate: A reduction in the transfer capability on a constraint limit in the Real-

          Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market relative to the limit enforced in the Day-

          Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Transmission Developer Applicant: An entity that submits a Transmission Developer

          Application.

   Transmission Developer Application: The application submitted to the Transmission Provider

          by a Transmission Developer Applicant to become certified as a Qualified Transmission

          Developer by the Transmission Provider.

   Transmission Issue: A reason to improve, expand or modify the Transmission System. These

          reasons may be compliance-based, economic-based, or reflect other local needs.

          Compliance-based reasons reflect the need to comply with all requirements imposed on

          the Transmission System performance by entities with jurisdiction or authority over all or

          part of the Transmission System including, but not necessarily limited to, i) compliance

          with Applicable Reliability Standards including NERC standards and applicable Regional

          Entity standards, ii) compliance with local reliability standards and requirements when

          applicable, iii) compliance with Transmission Owner standards if applicable, iv)

          compliance with applicable state and federal laws, v) compliance with duly enacted laws

          and regulations passed by a local governmental entity, and vi) compliance with




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                   1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                             44.0.0


          applicable regulatory mandates and obligations, including regulatory obligations related

          to serving load, interconnecting generation and providing transmission service.

          Economic-based reasons reflect the opportunity or obligation to provide added economic

          value to Transmission Customers through specific expansions of the Transmission

          System, where added economic value is the difference between the financially

          quantifiable benefits associated with specific expansions to the Transmission System and

          the financially quantifiable costs of those expansions. Economic value may be

          incremental to the value achieved from meeting a compliance requirement, or may stand

          on its own.

   Transmission Loading Relief Procedures (TLR): A procedure used in the Eastern

          Interconnection to relieve potential or actual loading on a constrained facility or

          Flowgate.

   Transmission Operator: Ensures reliability within the Transmission Provider Region by

          operating or directing the operation of transmission facilities.

   Transmission Outage: The temporary removal from operations of elements of the Transmission

          System to perform routine or scheduled maintenance. Transmission Outages shall be

          coordinated by the Transmission Provider with the Transmission Owners and the

          rescheduling of these Transmission Outages may entitle the affected Transmission Owner

          to recover the costs associated with rescheduling the Transmission Outages.

   Transmission Owner(s): Each member of the ISO whose transmission facilities (in whole or in

          part) make up the Transmission Provider Transmission System. An ITC is not a

          Transmission Owner as defined herein. Those Transmission Owners or ITC Participants




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                     1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                               44.0.0


          that are not public utilities under the Federal Power Act shall not become subject to

          Commission regulation by virtue of their status as Transmission Owners or ITC

          Participants under this Tariff; provided, however, that by transferring functional

          responsibility of their facilities classified as transmission and covered by this Tariff, those

          Transmission Owners or ITC Participants that are not public utilities under the Federal

          Power Act have agreed to participate in an ITC and/or the ISO in accordance with the

          terms of the ITC Participant Transfer Agreement. An ITC Participant is not, by virtue of

          participation in an ITC, a Transmission Owner as defined herein.

   Transmission Pricing Zone: The pricing zones that the Transmission Provider uses to allocate

          revenues for services, such as Reactive Supply and Voltage Control.

   Transmission Provider: MISO or any successor organization.

   Transmission Provider Board: The Board of Directors of MISO.

   Transmission Provider Committed Resources: A Resource that has been committed by the

          Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, any

          RAC process, or the LAC process.

   Transmission Provider’s Forecast of Maximum Energy Transfer for Reliability Coordination

          Service: For purposes of Schedule 31, the monthly billing determinants derived by

          multiplying by the number of hours in the month, the Reliability Coordination

          Customer’s peak demand for the month associated with its bundled retail customers and

          wholesale customers subject to Grandfathered Agreements.

   Transmission Provider Region: The Transmission System and Region that: (i) function as a

          centrally coordinated system and (ii) operate, subject to the single set of Dispatch Targets




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                            44.0.0


          and Setpoint Instructions determined and issued by the Transmission Provider.

   Transmission Provider’s Monthly Transmission System Peak: The maximum firm usage of the

          Transmission Provider’s Transmission System in a Month.

   Transmission Service: Point-To-Point Transmission Service provided under Module B of this

          Tariff on a firm and non-firm basis, including HVDC Service, and the Network

          Integration Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff.

   Transmission System: The transmission facilities owned or controlled by Transmission Owners

          that have conveyed functional control to the Transmission Provider, and are used to

          provide Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff. The Transmission System

          includes transmission facilities owned or controlled by Transmission Owners, the

          functional control of which has been transferred to the Transmission Provider subject to

          Commission approval under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act. In addition, the

          Transmission System includes other transmission facilities owned or controlled by the

          Transmission Owner that are booked to transmission accounts and are not controlled or

          operated by the Transmission Provider but are facilities that the Transmission Owners, by

          way of the Agency Agreement, have allowed the Transmission Provider to use in

          providing service under this Tariff. While not part of the Transmission System, service

          over Distribution Facilities is available through the execution of a Service Agreement

          pursuant to Schedule 11 of this Tariff. The term Transmission System shall include the

          Transmission System (Michigan).

   Transmission System (Michigan): The area directly served by those transmission facilities

          located within the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, which are owned or controlled by




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                  1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                            44.0.0


          entities that have conveyed operational control of these facilities to the Transmission

          Provider. Transmission System (Michigan) shall not include facilities located in the

          Upper Peninsula of Michigan or the facilities of any investor-owned utility which are

          located within the Lower Peninsula of Michigan if such investor-owned utility was not a

          party to the Joint Open Access Transmission Tariff, Michigan Electric Transmission

          Company and International Transmission Company, FERC Electric Tariff, Original

          Volume No. 1, between January 1, 1997 and May 1, 2002.

   Transmission System Emergency: Transmission System conditions or events that have the

          potential to exceed or have exceeded an Interconnection Reliability Operating Limit

          (IROL) and require mitigation in a timely fashion.

   Transmission System Region: The Transmission System, Load and Generation Resources

          interconnected to the Transmission System.

   Transmission Trust Revenues: The revenue collected by, received by, payable to, or to become

          payable to the Transmission Provider from Transmission Customers and Tariff

          Customers under this Tariff associated with or related to Transmission Service furnished

          under Module B, and Schedule 26-A that are required to be distributed solely to

          Transmission Owners or former Transmission Owners, including the revenue collected

          for amounts billed under Schedules 7, 8, 9, 21, 26, 26-A, 36, 37, 38, 39, and 45 and other

          schedules that may be added to this Tariff.

   Transmission Usage Charge (TUC): A charge attributable to the increased cost of Energy

          delivered at a given Commercial Node when the Transmission System is operating under

          constrained conditions or due to losses on the system. The TUC is the per unit charge to




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                1.T
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - T
MODULES                                                                                          44.0.0


          support a Through Schedule or Financial Schedule or Generator Self-Supply and is equal

          to the difference in the LMP at the sink and the LMP at source (in dollars per /MWh),

          which includes the Cost of Congestion and the Cost of Losses.




                                                                      Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                                    1.U
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - U
MODULES                                                                                               44.0.0


   Uncleared Zonal Resource Credits (Uncleared ZRCs): Zonal Resource Credits that did not

          clear the Planning Resource Auction, were not used in a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan,

          were not used in a Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt Out, and are not currently being

          used as replacement Zonal Resource Credits.

   Uncollectible Obligation: Any Past Due Amount that the Transmission Provider has concluded,

          pursuant to Section 7.10, is not reasonably expected to be paid in full within an

          acceptable period of time.

   Undeployed Regulating Mileage: Any un-utilized Regulating Mileage that was considered for a

          Dispatch Interval during the market clearing.

   Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee: A Resource credit

          guaranteed by the Transmission Provider ensuring the recovery of any lost profit from

          charging back at Regulating Mileage MCP to resources for Undeployed Regulating

          Mileage.

   Under-Forecast: The negative difference between the forecasted Demand and actual measured

          Demand, after adjustment for actual weather conditions, retail Load changes and actual

          LMPs. LSEs with Load whose withdrawals vary based on LMP and who provide

          verifiable statistical analysis to support the associated price elasticity can normalize

          actual measured Demand to reflect differences between forecasted and actual LMPs.

   Unforced Capacity (UCAP): The amount of Capacity in MW assigned to a Planning Resource

          after accounting for either its availability in the LOLE analysis or historic availability, as

          applicable.

   Uninstructed Deviation Enhancement Flag (UDE Flag): A flag (“True/False”) issued by the




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                    1.U
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - U
MODULES                                                                                               44.0.0


          Transmission Provider to all Generation Resources, except Electric Storage Resources, to

          signal that following dispatch is critical to support reliability. A “True” flag will be

          accompanied by an Uninstructed Deviation Enhancement Reason Code.

   Uninstructed Deviation Enhancement Reason Code (UDE Reason Code): A code of 1 through

          6, as defined in the Business Practices Manual 002 – Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets, issued by the Transmission Provider with a “True” Uninstructed Deviation

          Enhancement Flag to provide the specific reason for the flag.

   Unloaded Capacity Requirement: The amount of online, available generation Capacity above

          the generation Capacity needed to meet instantaneous total Load obligations that must be

          maintained to ensure online Resources are able to meet ramping requirements of all

          products cleared in the co-optimized market solutions. It is determined by the

          Transmission Provider’s real-time operations personnel after reviewing historical periods

          and setting specific levels of generation Capacity needed for maintaining reliable and

          efficient operations.

   Unsecured Credit: Any credit granted by Transmission Provider to an Applicant and/or Tariff

          Customer that is not secured by a form of Financial Security.

   Unsecured Credit Allowance: Unsecured Credit extended by Transmission Provider in an

          amount determined by Transmission Provider’s evaluation of the creditworthiness of the

          Applicant and/or Tariff Customer.

   Unsecured Credit Floor: For credit scoring purposes, the minimum amount of Unsecured

          Credit to be extended to a creditworthy Public Power entity.

   Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified Resource: A Generation Resource that is not a




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                  1.U
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - U
MODULES                                                                                             44.0.0


          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, External Asynchronous Resource, Demand

          Response Resource-Type II, or Electric Storage Resource that has met the requirements

          to be eligible to provide Up and Down Ramp Capability by submitting Up and Down

          Ramp Capability dispatch status other than "Not Participating" into the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets.

   Up Ramp Capability (URC): The product representing the ability of dispatchable resources to

          respond to future upward changes in demand within the Ramp Capability Response Time

          after a given dispatch. The Real-Time Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirement is

          defined by expected market-wide upward variation in dispatchable generation to account

          for forecasted changes in load and Scheduled Interchange while considering the

          contribution of non-dispatchable generation (negative for a downward variation) plus the

          upward short-term uncertainty associated with the Load Forecast, non-dispatchable

          generation forecast, and units not responding to their Setpoint, all evaluated over the

          Ramp Capability Response Time. If the resulting requirement is negative, the

          requirement is set to 0 so that the requirement is always non-negative.

   Up to TUC Interchange Schedule: Interchange Schedules that specify a willingness to pay the

          Transmission Usage Charge (dollars per MWh) represented by a maximum amount

          beyond which the Market Participant agrees to be curtailed.

   Use Limited Resource: Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources or External

          Resource(s), that due to design considerations, environmental restrictions on operations,

          cyclical requirements, such as the need to recharge or refill, or for other non economic

          reasons, are unable to operate continuously on a daily basis, but must be able to operate




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.U
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - U
MODULES                                                                                            44.0.0


          for a minimum set of consecutive operating Hours.

   Users: Transmission Customers or other entities that are parties to transactions under this Tariff.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 1.V
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Definitions - V
MODULES                                                                                            47.0.0


   Value of Lost Load – Pricing (Pricing VOLL): The value that represents the price consumers

          are willing to pay to avoid an interruption of electrical service during a EEA-Level 3,

          which is based on consumers with the lowest willingness to pay. The Pricing VOLL shall

          default to $10,000/MWh, and shall be reduced when necessary, as set forth in section

          40.2.20.b.iv of this Tariff..

   Value of Lost Load – System (System VOLL): The value that represents the price consumers

          are willing to pay to avoid an interruption of electrical service. The System VOLL shall

          be equal to $35,000/MWh, and shall be used to scale the Loss of Load Probability Curve

          when calculating the Operating Reserve Demand Curve specified in Schedule 28.

   Variance Analysis: Additional analysis performed by the Transmission Provider in accordance

          with Section IX of Attachment FF to the Tariff.

   Verified Energy Offer: A Resource’s cost-based incremental Energy Offer above the Energy

          Offer Soft Price Cap, verified by the Independent Market Monitor after the close of the

          Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market and before market clearing.

   Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offer: A Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offer

          that exceeds the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap, and was verified by the Transmission

          Provider pursuant to section 64.1.4.a.iii.d of Module D before market clearing.

   Virtual Bid: A bid to purchase Energy that is not backed by physical Load that is submitted in

          the Transmission Provider’s Day Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market in

          accordance with the procedures and requirements of this Tariff.

   Virtual Energy: Energy purchased and/or sold in the Day Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                                  1.V
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - V
MODULES                                                                                             47.0.0


          Market that is not backed by real assets such as Load or Generation Resources.

   Virtual Megawatt Hour Limit (Virtual MWh Limit): The limit on MWh of Virtual Bids and

          Virtual Supply Offers that may be submitted by a Tariff Customer on a given Operating

          Day, as established and modified pursuant to Section IV.A of Attachment L of this Tariff.

   Virtual Supply Offer: An Offer to sell Energy that is not backed by a physical Resource that is

          submitted in the Transmission Provider’s Day Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market in accordance with the procedures and requirements of this Tariff.

   Virtual Transactions: Transactions related to Virtual Bids and/or Virtual Supply Offers.

   Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment: A Transmission Provider issued Resource

          commitment in addition to, in lieu of or resulting from the Security Constrained Unit

          Commitment in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or any Reliability

          Assessment Commitment, in order to mitigate issues with Transmission System voltage

          or other local reliability concerns. These Resource commitment requirements are

          established prior to or during an Operating Day and are based on projected local

          reliability requirements, operational considerations, and generation and transmission

          outages. VLR Commitments will be based on Operating Guides for recurring voltage

          and local reliability requirements, but an Operating Guide is not required prior to a

          Resource commitment being designated as a VLR Commitment. Resource commitments

          to relieve a potential or actual IROL violation will not be designated in this category.

   Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment Allocation Ratio: The ratio of RSG costs associated

          with Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments allocated to Local Balancing Authority

          Areas. The ratio is determined by the Transmission Provider as described in Schedule 44




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.V
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - V
MODULES                                                                                          47.0.0


          of this Tariff.

   Voltage and Local Reliability Local Balancing Authority Area Share: The pro rata allocation

          to each Local Balancing Authority Area of Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charges

          associated with Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments. The Voltage and Local

          Reliability Local Balancing Authority Area Share will be determined by the

          Transmission Provider as described in Schedule 44 of this Tariff.

   Voltage and Reactive Power Coordination Procedures: The procedures that the Transmission

          Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall establish to ensure the reactive

          power support necessary to maintain transmission voltages within limits that are

          established by the Transmission Provider, which are measured in MVAR.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                               1.W
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Definitions - W
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   Wholesale Distribution Service: The transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce

          over Distribution Facilities owned, controlled or operated by the Transmission Provider,

          or a Transmission Owner on behalf of a wholesale purchaser pursuant to a Commission

          accepted Open Access Transmission Tariff. To the extent such service is required, it

          shall be specified in the Service Agreement for the associated service being provided

          under the Tariff. Retail customers are not eligible for Wholesale Distribution Services.

   Winning FTR Bid: An FTR Bid resulting in the purchase of an FTR in an FTR Auction.

   Winning FTR Offer: An FTR Offer resulting in the sale of an FTR in an FTR Auction.

   Withdrawing Entity: An owner of transmission facilities that withdraws its transmission

          facilities from the operational control of the Transmission Provider.

   Working Capital: Current assets minus current liabilities (calculated in accordance with

          generally accepted accounting principles). Any such calculation may be revised by

          Transmission Provider upon review of the available financial information.




                                                                          Effective On: March 27, 2024
MISO                                                                                           1.X
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Definitions - X
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0



   XEFORd: The Equivalent Forced Outage Rate Demand (EFORd) excluding outside

          management control events, as defined in the BPM for Resource Adequacy.




                                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                1.Y
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Definitions - Y
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0



   Year: A sequential twelve (12) Month period ending on December 31, except in the case of the

          calendar year containing the Day on which the Transmission Provider begins to operate

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, in which case a Year shall begin on the first Day

          of the calendar month following the Day that the Transmission Provider operates Energy

          and Operating Reserve Markets and ending on the December 31 at least twelve (12)

          months but no more than twenty-four (24) months thereafter. If the Transmission

          Provider starts operation of the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets on the first day of

          a calendar month, a Year shall begin on the first Day of that calendar month that the

          Transmission Provider operates Energy and Operating Reserve Markets and ending on

          the December 31 at least twelve (12) months but no more than twenty-four (24) months

          thereafter.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     1.Z
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Definitions - Z
MODULES                                                                                               43.0.0


   Zero Injection Generation (ZG) Associated Load: A source of electrical load that has a Point of

          Withdrawal that is at the same substation as the Point of Interconnection to the

          Transmission System (i.e. same voltage level at the interconnecting substation) as the

          Generating Facility with ZG Interconnection Service that will serve it.

   Zero Injection Generation (ZG) Interconnection Service: A limited form of Interconnection

          Service that allows an Interconnection Customer to connect its Generating Facility to the

          Transmission System or Distribution System, as applicable, for the limited purpose of

          delivering energy to ZG Associated Load. ZG Interconnection Service does not grant

          any right to inject energy onto the Transmission System except as may be authorized by

          Section 3.11 of the Generator Interconnection Procedures. ZG Interconnection Service

          does not convey Transmission Service. ZG Interconnection Service also does not

          provide a right to serve, or a right to Transmission Service to serve, a ZG Associated

          Load or retail customer except as allowed by applicable state law.

   Zero Injection Generation (ZG) Resource: A generating resource with an Attachment X

          defined ZG Interconnection Agreement. A ZG Resource may participate as a Generation

          Resource, Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, Electric Storage Resource, or Behind the

          Meter Generation resource.

   Zonal Deliverability Charge (ZDC): A positive charge per ZRC associated with ZRCs in a

          FRAP that may be assessed to an LSE based upon the congestion contribution to the

          constraints between LRZs or ERZs of any ZRCs that are located outside of the LRZ

          where the LSE has Load.

   ZDC Hedge: The mechanism that permits an LSE to avoid Zonal Deliverability Charge




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   1.Z
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Definitions - Z
MODULES                                                                                             43.0.0


          assessments through the investment in new or upgraded Transmission System facilities

          which are a result of approved firm transmission service requests where the LSE’s

          Planning Resource and the LSE’s Demand are in separate LRZs or the Planning Resource

          is located in an ERZ.

   Zonal Export Ability: The ability of an LRZ to export capacity to areas outside of that LRZ.

          Equal to an LRZ’s base interchange plus the LRZ’s incremental ability to export

          generation.

   Zonal Import Ability: The ability of an LRZ to import capacity from areas outside of that LRZ.

          Equal to an LRZ’s base interchange plus the LRZ’s incremental ability to import

          generation.

   Zonal Operating Reserve: Operating Reserve that is available on a Reserve Zone basis.

   Zonal Regulating Reserve: Regulating Reserve that is available on a Reserve Zone basis.

   Zonal Resource Credit (ZRC): A MW unit of a Planning Resource that has been converted

          from a MW of Seasonal Accredited Capacity to a credit in the MECT, which is eligible to

          be offered by a Market Participant into the PRA, to be sold bilaterally, eligible to be used

          for replacement capacity, and/or to be submitted through a Fixed Resource Adequacy

          Plan.

   Zonal Uplift Report: A monthly report of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits,

          Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Day-Ahead Margin Assurance

          Payments, and Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments, paid in

          dollars, and categorized by Local Resource Zone, Interface, day, and uplift category.




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                              1.Z
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Definitions - Z
MODULES                                                                                        43.0.0


   ZRC Near-Shortage Conditions: Any Season in a Planning Resource Auction in which there is

          sufficient volume of ZRC Offers in the LRZ to meet LCR, but the Season’s ACP is

          greater than the daily CONE value (i.e. 1/365 times CONE).

   ZRC Offer: An offer into the PRA of ZRCs by a Market Participant.

   ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency Charge: A charge that is assessed to an LSE that has cleared

          under ZRC Shortage Conditions and/or ZRC Near-Shortage Conditions for one or more

          Season’s in the Planning Resource Auction.

   ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency Credit: A Resource credit guaranteed by the Transmission

          Provider ensuring the minimum recovery of a Planning Resource’s Allowable ZRC Costs

          that have been cleared for one or more Seasons in the Planning Resource Auction.

   ZRC Shortage Conditions: Any Season in a Planning Resource Auction in which there is an

          insufficient volume of ZRC Offers in the LRZ to cover LCR.

   Zone: A set of Buses in a geographic area as determined by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                       Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                           2
FERC Electric Tariff   Initial Allocation and Renewal Procedures
MODULES                                                   30.0.0




                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Initial Allocation of Available Transfer Capability
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


          For purposes of determining whether existing capability on the Transmission System is

   adequate to accommodate a request for firm service under this Tariff, the existing transmission

   reservation queues of the Transmission Owners and ITC Participants will be consolidated into a

   single Transmission Provider transmission reservation queue, commencing thirty (30) days

   before the ITC becomes operational, recognizing the priorities existing with respect to the

   Transmission Owner’s or ITC Participants’ system.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                              Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Service Customer
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Existing firm service customers (wholesale requirements and transmission-only with a contract

   term of five-years or more, and retail customers, irrespective of term) of the Transmission

   Owner(s), ITC Participant(s), or Transmission Provider have the right to continue to take

   transmission service from the Transmission Provider when the contract expires, rolls over or is

   renewed. For purposes of this Section 2.2, a request for Transmission Service made by an

   existing firm service customer in the exercise of the above right shall be known as a “Rollover

   Request.”

   This transmission reservation priority is independent of whether the existing customer continues

   to purchase Capacity and Energy from the Transmission Owner(s) or ITC Participant(s) or elects

   to purchase Capacity and Energy from another supplier. If a new request(s) for Transmission

   Service or Rollover Request(s) for the total amount of Capacity for a given Interface have been

   submitted on the OASIS (“Competing Queue”), and the Transmission System cannot

   accommodate all of the requests for Transmission Service, the existing firm service customer

   must agree to accept a contract term at least equal to a competing request by any new Eligible

   Customer and to pay the current just and reasonable rate, as approved by the Commission, for

   such service; provided that, the firm service customer shall have a right of first refusal at the end

   of such service only if the new contract is for five years or more.

   The existing firm service customer must provide notice to the Transmission Provider whether it

   will exercise its right of first refusal no less than one year prior to the expiration date of its

   transmission service agreement. Once the Competition Queue is established and if a

   Transmission Customer has submitted two Rollover Requests covering successive time periods,

   and the service period of the first in time Rollover Request is extended due to a competing




                                                                           Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                             Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Service Customer
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   request, the second in time Rollover Request shall be annulled and the Transmission Customer

   shall lose its place in the transmission queue for the second in time Rollover Request. The

   Transmission Customer shall be required to submit a new Rollover Request and take a new place

   in the transmission queue to exercise its rollover rights in the time period subsequent to the

   expiration date of its first in time Rollover Request.

   This transmission reservation priority for Rollover Request customers is an ongoing right that

   may be exercised at the end of all firm contract terms of five years or longer. Service

   agreements subject to a right of first refusal entered into prior to the date of the Transmission

   Provider’s filing adopting the reformed rollover language herein in compliance with Order No.

   890 or associated with a transmission service request received prior to July 13, 2007, unless

   terminated, will become subject to the five year/one year requirement on the first rollover date

   after the date of the Transmission Provider’s filing adopting the reformed rollover language

   herein in compliance with Order No. 890; provided that, the one-year notice requirement shall

   apply to such service agreements with five years or more left in their terms as of the date of the

   Transmission Providers filing adopting the reformed rollover language herein in compliance with

   Order No. 890. This reservation priority only applies to the facilities of the Transmission

   Owner(s) or ITC Participant(s) where such facility costs have been included as part of the firm

   service rates that the firm service customer has been paying. If competing Rollover Request

   customers apply for service that cannot be fully provided, the priority rights will be ranked in

   accordance with first come, first served principles. If Rollover Request customers tie, then the

   capacity for which they receive priority rights under this Tariff shall be apportioned on a pro rata

   basis.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                          Reservation Priority For Existing Firm Service Customer
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   A Rollover Request customer shall be required to match the term of any new service request that:

   (a) was queued prior to the Rollover Request; (b) has been conditionally accepted by the

   Transmission Provider and subsequently confirmed by the new service requestor; (c) has the

   same start date as the Rollover Request and extends beyond the end date of the Rollover

   Request; and (d) has not already been awarded Capacity due to later queued Rollover Request(s)

   declining to match on term. The Rollover Request customer shall have three (3) business days to

   confirm a matching request. If the Rollover Request customer does not agree to match on term,

   the Rollover Request customer’s Capacity shall be awarded to the new service request customer.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Ancillary Services
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


           Ancillary Services are needed with Transmission Service to maintain reliability within

   the MISO Balancing Authority and within and among the Local Balancing Authority Areas

   affected by the Transmission Service. The Transmission Provider is required to offer the

   following Operating Reserve – Ancillary Service (i) Regulation Reserve service, (ii) Spinning

   Reserve service, and (iii) Supplemental Reserve service. The Transmission Provider shall

   procure Operating Reserve Ancillary Services through operation of the Energy and Operating

   Reserve Markets described in Module C at least cost and in accordance with Schedules 3, 5 and

   6 of this Tariff.

           The Transmission Provider is required to provide (or offer to arrange with the Local

   Balancing Authority, Transmission Owner or ITC as discussed below), and the Transmission

   Customer is required to purchase, the following Other Ancillary Services: (i) Scheduling,

   System Control and Dispatch, and (ii) Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation

   Resources. The Transmission Provider shall procure Other Ancillary Services at least cost.

           The Transmission Provider can fulfill its obligation to provide Other Ancillary Services

   by acting as the Transmission Customer’s agent to secure these Other Ancillary Services from

   the Local Balancing Authority. The Transmission Customer may elect to: (i) have the

   Transmission Provider act as its agent or (ii) secure the Other Ancillary Services directly from

   the appropriate Local Balancing Authority. Each Transmission Owner, ITC, and ITC Participant

   (and User, where applicable), with the ability to provide any or all of these Other Ancillary

   Services shall offer to provide such services (with respect to loads within its Local Balancing

   Authority Area) under cost-based schedules unless market-based rates have been accepted for

   filing at the Commission. These schedules including all related terms and conditions shall be




                                                                         Effective On: December 6, 2015
MISO                                                                                                    3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Ancillary Services
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   posted on the Transmission Provider’s OASIS. If the party providing such service(s) is a public

   utility, all applicable rates and charges shall be on file with the Commission.

          In the event of an unauthorized use of Other Ancillary Services by the Transmission

   Customer, the Transmission Customer shall pay the following penalty: two hundred percent

   (200%) of the relevant Local Balancing Authority’s applicable Other Ancillary Service charge

   for the entire length of the reserved period but not exceeding one (1) month. The Transmission

   Provider shall compensate any affected Local Balancing Authority Areas or Generators for their

   actual costs. Any revenues in excess of actual costs shall be used to reduce the Transmission

   Provider costs (for other than the penalized Transmission Customer) in Schedule 10, except in

   the case of Other Ancillary Services provided by an ITC, use of such revenues will be governed

   by the terms of the ITC’s Control Area Services and Operations Tariff.

          Any offer of a discount made by the Transmission Provider in conjunction with its

   provision of Transmission Service must be announced to all Eligible Customers solely by

   posting on the OASIS.

          The specific Transmission Provider Ancillary Services, prices and/or compensation

   methods are described on the schedules that are attached to and made a part of this Tariff.

   Sections 3.1 through 3.6 below list the six Ancillary Services.




                                                                         Effective On: December 6, 2015
MISO                                                                                             3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   The rates and/or methodology are described in Schedule 1.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Reactive Supply and Voltage Control Service:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   The rates and/or methodology are described in Schedule 2.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Regulating Reserve Service:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


    Where applicable, the rates and/or methodology are described in Schedule 3 and in Sections 39

   and 40 of Module C.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Delivery Scheduling and Balancing Service:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   Where applicable, to Transmission Customers of generators located within the Michigan Electric

   Transmission Company, the rates and/or methodology are described in Schedule 4C - METC.1




   1
       The Transmission Provider is required to offer to provide Delivery Scheduling and Balancing
       Service as an additional Ancillary Service available only to a customer receiving energy from
       generators located within the Michigan Electric Transmission Company’s Service Area. The
       Transmission Customer receiving energy from generators located within the Michigan
       Electric Transmission Company’s Service Area is required to acquire this Ancillary Service,
       whether from the Transmission Provider, from a third party or by self-supply. The
       Transmission Customer may not decline the Transmission Provider’s offer of Delivery
       Scheduling and Balancing Service unless it is demonstrated that it has been acquired from
       another source. The Transmission Customer must list in its Application whether it will
       acquire Delivery Scheduling and Balancing Service from the Transmission Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Spinning Reserve Service:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Schedule 5 and in Sections 39

   and 40 of Module C.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             3.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Supplemental Reserve Service:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   Where applicable the rates and/or methodology are described in Schedule 6 and in Sections 39

   and 40 of Module C.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              4
FERC Electric Tariff                              Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS)
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


          Terms and conditions regarding Open Access Same-Time Information System and

   standards of conduct are set forth in 18 C.F.R. § 37 of the Commission’s regulations (Open

   Access Same Time Information System and Standards of Conduct for Public Utilities) and 18

   C.F.R. § 38 of the Commission’s regulations (Business Practice Standards and Communication

   Protocols for Public Utilities). In the event Available Transfer Capability, as posted on the

   OASIS, is insufficient to accommodate a request for firm Transmission Service, additional

   studies may be required as provided by this Tariff pursuant to Sections 19 and 32.

          The Transmission Provider shall post on OASIS and its public website an electronic link

   to all rules, standards and practices that (i) relate to the terms and conditions of Transmission

   Service, (ii) are not subject to a North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB) copyright

   restriction, and (iii) are not otherwise included in this Tariff. The Transmission Provider shall

   post on OASIS and on its public website an electronic link to the NAESB website where any

   rules, standards and practices that are protected by copyright may be obtained. The

   Transmission Provider shall also post on OASIS and its public website an electronic link to a

   statement of the process by which the Transmission Provider shall add, delete or otherwise

   modify the rules, standards and practices that are not included in this Tariff. Such process shall

   set forth the means by which the Transmission Provider shall provide reasonable advance notice

   to Transmission Customers, Market Participants, Coordination Customers and Eligible

   Customers of any such additions, deletions or modifications, the associated effective date, and

   any additional implementation procedures that the Transmission Provider deems appropriate.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   4
FERC Electric Tariff   Open Access Same-Time Information System (OASIS)
MODULES                                                           30.0.0




                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                  5
FERC Electric Tariff            Local Furnishing Bonds
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                      Local Furnishing Bonds or Tax Exempt Entities and Facilities
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   This provision is applicable only to Transmission Owners and ITC Participants that have

   financed facilities for the local furnishing of electric Energy with tax-exempt bonds, as described

   in § 142(f) of the Internal Revenue Code (“local furnishing bonds”) or that are tax-exempt

   entities, as described in § 501(c)(12) of the Internal Revenue Code. Notwithstanding any other

   provision of this Tariff, the Transmission Owner or ITC Participant shall not be required to

   provide Transmission Service to any Eligible Customer pursuant to this Tariff if the provision of

   such Transmission Service would jeopardize the tax-exempt status of any entity or of the local

   furnishing bond(s) used to finance the Transmission Owner’s or ITC Participant’s facilities that

   would be used in providing such Transmission Service.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                         Alternative Procedures for Requesting Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   (i)    If the Transmission Provider determines that the provision of Transmission Service

   requested by an Eligible Customer would jeopardize the tax-exempt status of any entity or of any

   local furnishing bond(s) used to finance any Transmission Owner’s or ITC Participant’s facilities

   that would be used in providing such Transmission Service, it shall advise the Eligible Customer

   within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Completed Application.

   (ii)   If the Eligible Customer thereafter renews its request for the same Transmission Service

   referred to in (i) by tendering an application under § 211 of the Federal Power Act, the

   Transmission Provider and the relevant Transmission Owner or ITC Participant, within ten (10)

   days of receiving a copy of the § 211 application, will waive any rights to a request for service

   under § 213(a) of the Federal Power Act and to the issuance of a proposed order under § 212(c)

   of the Federal Power Act. The Commission, upon receipt of the Transmission Provider’s and/or

   Transmission Owner’s or ITC Participant’s waiver of rights to a request for service under §

   213(a) of the Federal Power Act and to the issuance of a proposed order under § 212(c) of the

   Federal Power Act, shall issue an order under § 211 of the Federal Power Act. Upon issuance of

   the order under § 211 of the Federal Power Act, the Transmission Provider shall be required to

   provide the requested Transmission Service over the affected Transmission Owner’s or ITC

   Participant’s facilities in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                      6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            Reciprocity
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


          A Transmission Customer receiving Transmission Service under this Tariff agrees to

   provide comparable transmission service that it is capable of providing to the Transmission

   Owners, ITC, and ITC Participants on similar terms and conditions over facilities used for the

   transmission of electric Energy owned, controlled or operated by the Transmission Customer and

   over facilities used for the transmission of electric Energy owned, controlled or operated by the

   Transmission Customer’s corporate Affiliates.

          This reciprocity requirement applies not only to the Transmission Customer that obtains

   Transmission Service under this Tariff, but also to all parties to a transaction that involves the

   use of Transmission Service under this Tariff, including the power seller, buyer and any

   intermediary, such as a power marketer. This reciprocity requirement also applies to any

   Eligible Customer that owns, controls or operates transmission facilities that uses an

   intermediary, such as a power marketer, to request Transmission Service under the Tariff. If the

   Transmission Customer does not own, control or operate transmission facilities, it must include

   in its Application a sworn statement of one of its duly authorized officers or other representatives

   that the purpose of its Application is not to assist an Eligible Customer avoid the requirements of

   this provision.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   6A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Legal Capacity
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


          The Transmission Provider in its capacity as the Energy Market Counterparty (and not in

   any other capacity) administers this Tariff for all Market Activities, is the contracting party with

   Market Participants for Market Activities, and collects and distributes all charges for Market

   Activities. The Transmission Provider in its capacity as the Transmission Charges Collection

   Agent (and not in any other capacity) administers this Tariff for all Transmission Service, is the

   contracting party with Transmission Customers for Transmission Service, and collects and

   distributes all Transmission Charges. The Transmission Provider, in its capacity as Transmission

   Charges Collection Agent, shall hold all collected Transmission Trust Revenues in trust for the

   benefit of the Transmission Owners and former Transmission Owners who have a right to

   receive Transmission Trust Revenues in accordance with this Tariff, subject to the Transmission

   Provider’s right pursuant to Section 7.4(a) of the Tariff to deduct from such funds certain

   authorized fees and expenses that are payable directly to the Transmission Provider from time to

   time for its administration of the Transmission System in accordance with the Tariff and the

   Transmission Owners Agreement. Transmission Provider shall hold such collected

   Transmission Trust Revenues in a separate operating account together with similar amounts for

   transmission revenues the Transmission Provider collects and holds in trust for Manitoba Hydro

   pursuant to the Manitoba Hydro Open Access Transmission Tariff and Coordination Agreement

   by and between the Transmission Provider and Manitoba Hydro. The funds described in the

   preceding sentence held in this separate operating account shall be held separate from any other

   funds. Transmission Provider also shall hold disputed payments collected as Transmission Trust

   Revenues in trust for the benefit of Owners or former Owners who have a right to such

   Transmission Trust Revenues in a separate account. References in the Tariff to the Transmission




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2014
MISO                                                                                                     6A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Legal Capacity
MODULES                                                                                               31.0.0


   Provider in connection with charges for Market Activities shall be deemed to refer to the

   Transmission Provider in its capacity as the Energy Market Counterparty. References in the

   Tariff to the Transmission Provider in connection with Transmission Service or Transmission

   Charges shall be deemed to refer to the Transmission Provider in its capacity as the Transmission

   Charges Collection Agent.

          For purposes of clarity, the Transmission Provider is not the Energy Market Counterparty

   to the sale of Energy under a Financial Schedule transaction or for a Generator Self-Supply

   transaction. The Transmission Provider is acting in its capacity as the Energy Market

   Counterparty with regard to the Transmission Usage Charges for a Generator Self-Supply

   transaction. The Transmission Provider collects and disburses the Transmission Usage Charge

   as agent for the parties to the Financial Schedule and is not the Energy Market Counterparty to

   the transaction. Generator Self-Supply transactions do not have a counterparty for the sale of the

   Energy since the Market Participant is supplying itself and there is no sale. The fact that charges

   in addition to the Transmission Usage Charge may appear on the Transmission Provider’s

   settlement statements for Generator Self-Supply transactions is an accounting convenience and

   shall not change the nature of the Generator Self-Supply transactions or make the Transmission

   Provider the Energy Market Counterparty to the sale of Energy thereto. In addition, to the extent

   that other types of activities or transactions as described or reflected in accounting or settlement

   statements may appear to be inconsistent with the terms of the Tariff in relation to the

   participation, non-participation or capacity of the Transmission Provider as Energy Market

   Counterparty or as Transmission Charges Collection Agent, the terms of the Tariff shall control.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2014
MISO                                                                                                 7
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Billing and Payment; Defaults and Remedies
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


          Sections 7.1, 7.2, 7.4 and 7.5 below shall apply to all Transmission Customers and to all

   Tariff Customers incurring charges under Schedule 26-A and/or Schedule 26-J. Sections 7.6

   through 7.13 below shall apply to all Market Participants, Section 7.22 shall apply to Reliability

   Coordination Customers, Section 7.6 and 7.23 shall apply to Congestion Management

   Customers, and Section 7.3, Section 7.14 through Section 7.21 and Section 7.24 shall apply to all

   Tariff Customers.




                                                                             Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                              7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                        Billing Procedure for Transmission Customers and Schedule
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   Billing Procedures for Transmission Customers and Schedule 26-A and Schedule 26-J

   Charges:

          Within a reasonable time after the first day of each month, the Transmission Provider

   shall submit one or more invoices to the Tariff Customers incurring charges under Schedule 26-

   A and/or Schedule 26-J during the preceding month and prior period adjustments, and to

   Transmission Customers for the charges for all services furnished under Module B of this Tariff

   during the preceding month and prior period adjustments, except for ITC Service provided under

   ITC Rate Schedules as set forth below. One or more invoices relate to all services for which the

   Transmission Provider will settle, bill, collect and distribute revenues to the Transmission

   Owners for services furnished under Module B and Schedule 26-A and to non-MISO

   transmission owners for services furnished under Schedule 26-J.

          For services under an ITC Rate Schedule, an ITC may, at its election, perform billing,

   credit and accounting responsibilities under this Tariff. When agreed to by the Transmission

   Provider, an ITC will bill the Transmission Customers for both Transmission Service and ITC

   Service to avoid multiple bills being sent to the Transmission Customers.

          One invoice relates to the Transmission Provider Cost Adder or the service charge for

   recovering costs associated with operating the ISO that are not covered under Schedule 1,

   Schedule 16 or Schedule 17. These costs are captured within a separate invoice line item,

   Schedule 10 and include: 1) costs associated with the Transmission Provider control center,

   including capital costs and operating expenses and 2) costs for administering this Tariff.

   Transmission Customers listed in Attachment I will pay costs associated with the Transmission

   Provider’s operating expenses as specified under Schedule 10 A. For customers taking HVDC




                                                                             Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                             7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                       Billing Procedure for Transmission Customers and Schedule
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   Service under Section 27A of the Tariff, a separate invoice for the costs recovered under

   Schedule 35 of the Tariff may be issued by the Transmission Provider.

          The invoices shall be paid by the Transmission Customer and Tariff Customer incurring

   charges under Schedule 26-A and/or Schedule 26-J within seven (7) days of receipt. All

   payments shall be made in immediately available funds payable to the Transmission Provider or

   ITC, as applicable.

          All billing procedures involving invoices under this Section 7.1 or with respect to Module

   B of this Tariff, including any ITC Rate Schedules, shall be governed by the Accounting and

   Billing Manual or, if applicable, an ITC’s Accounting and Billing Manual. Those manuals are

   available for inspection by the Transmission Customers, Tariff Customers incurring charges

   under Schedule 26-Aand/or Schedule 26-J, Transmission Owners, non-MISO transmission

   owners receiving distributions under Schedule 26-J, ITCs, ITC Participants, and regulatory

   authorities with jurisdiction over the Transmission Customers, Tariff Customers incurring

   charges under Schedule 26-A, Transmission Owners, non-MISO transmission owners receiving

   distributions under Schedule 26-J, ITCs, ITC Participants, and the public, and are posted on the

   Transmission Provider website.




                                                                            Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                                7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Billing Procedure for Schedule 10 B:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Within a reasonable time after the first day of each month, the Transmission Provider shall

   submit an invoice to the Transmission Owners listed in Attachment I for their respective share of

   Transmission Provider’s monthly capital costs and the portion of its operating costs described

   under Schedule 10 B. The invoices shall be paid by the Transmission Owner within ten (10)

   days of receipt. All payments shall be made in immediately available funds payable to the

   Transmission Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 7.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Interest on Unpaid Balances:
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Interest on any unpaid amounts (not including amounts placed in a cash collateral account as

   Financial Security) shall be calculated in accordance with the methodology set aside for interest

   on refunds in the Commission’s Regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii). Interest on

   delinquent amounts shall be calculated from the due date of the bill to the date of payment.

   When payments are mailed, the bill shall be considered having been paid on the date of receipt

   by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Transmission Customer Default and Past Due Amounts and Sched
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


   Transmission Customer Default and Past Due Amounts and Schedule 26-A Default and
   Past Due Amounts:

   The rights and remedies set forth in this Section 7.4 are in addition to, and not in limitation of,

   any and all other remedies available under this Tariff, any other agreement or under applicable

   law. Upon the occurrence of a Default, the Transmission Provider shall initiate a filing with the

   Commission to terminate the Transmission Customer’s Service Agreement, unless the

   Transmission Customer is in bankruptcy as set forth within Section 7.16.1(e) and such a filing

   would legally conflict with that bankruptcy petition or proceeding. The Transmission Provider

   shall not terminate the Service Agreement until the Commission so approves any such request.

   In addition, the Transmission Provider, or ITC where applicable, shall provide notice to the

   Transmission Customer if it intends to initiate a filing with the Commission to terminate the

   Service Agreement, in accordance with Commission policy. If the billing services are provided

   by an ITC, and the ITC notifies the Transmission Provider of a Transmission Customer Default,

   then, upon the request of the ITC, the Transmission Provider shall provide notice to the

   Transmission Customer of its intention to initiate a filing with the Commission to terminate the

   Transmission Customer’s Service Agreement, in accordance with Commission policy.

   If any amounts invoiced by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 7.1 or Section 7.2 are

   not paid when due (the “Past Due Amount”), then the following procedures apply:

   (a)    ISO Charges Paid First. The Transmission Provider shall use monies received by it from

   Transmission Customers or Tariff Customers incurring charges under Schedule 26-A and/or

   Schedule 26-J to pay all amounts due to the Transmission Provider under this Tariff and the ISO

   Agreement before making any payments to any Transmission Customers, Transmission Owners,

   non-MISO transmission owners receiving distributions under Schedule 26-J, or ITC. If the ITC




                                                                               Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                            7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Transmission Customer Default and Past Due Amounts and Sched
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


   bills both Transmission Provider service and ITC Service pursuant to Section 7.1 of this Tariff,

   the ITC shall use monies received by it from Transmission Customers or Tariff Customers

   incurring charges under Schedule 26-A and/or Schedule 26-J to pay all amounts due to the

   Transmission Provider under this Tariff and the ISO Agreement before making any payments to

   any Transmission Customers, Transmission Owners, ITC Participants or the ITC.

   (b)    Reduction of Payments and Increases in Charges: If the procedures described in

   subsection (d) below do not yield sufficient funds to pay all invoiced amounts in full (after

   payment of amounts due to the Transmission Provider in accordance with subsection (a) above)

   on the date such payments are due, the Transmission Provider shall reduce payments to those

   Transmission Owners, non-MISO transmission owners receiving distributions under Schedule

   26-J, and/or ITC owed monies that billing period (the “Past Due Period”), pro rata based on

   amounts owed to such Transmission Owners and/or ITCs, to the extent necessary to clear its

   accounts by the close of banking business on the date such payments are due. As funds

   attributable to a Past Due Amount are received by the Transmission Provider (including amounts

   received through actions or proceedings commenced against the defaulting Transmission

   Customer or Tariff Customer incurring charges under Schedule 26-A and/or Schedule 26-J) prior

   to the next billing period’s statements being distributed, such funds, together with any interest

   and late charges collected on the applicable Past Due Amount, shall be distributed pro rata to the

   Transmission Owners, non-MISO transmission owners receiving distributions under Schedule

   26-J, and/or ITC that did not receive the full amount of their payments as a result of such Past

   Due Amount not being paid.




                                                                              Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                             7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Transmission Customer Default and Past Due Amounts and Sched
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


   (c)    Order of Settlement. As payments are received by the Transmission Provider to satisfy

   outstanding Past Due Amounts, the oldest outstanding Past Due Amount will be settled first in

   the order of the creation of such debts.

   (d)    Enforcing Security. The Transmission Provider shall use funds attained under the Credit

   Support Documents provided by the Transmission Customer or Tariff Customer incurring

   charges under Schedule 26-A and/or Schedule 26-J to the extent necessary to pay the Past Due

   Amount and any applicable interest and late charges. Any use of Credit Support Documents

   shall be undertaken in compliance with Module A of this Tariff, the Credit Policy and/or the

   Credit Support Documents.




                                                                           Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                               7.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Disputed Amounts:
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   If a Transmission Customer or Tariff Customer incurring charges under Schedule 26-A and/or

   Schedule 26-J disputes the amount invoiced by the Transmission Provider or the ITC pursuant to

   Section 7.1 or Section 7.2, the Transmission Customer or Tariff Customer incurring charges

   under Schedule 26-A and/or Schedule 26-J must pay all invoiced amounts regardless of any

   dispute, but such payment shall not be deemed a waiver with respect to any disputed amount. If

   the Transmission Customer or Tariff Customer incurring charges under Schedule 26-A and/or

   Schedule 26-J notifies the Transmission Provider or the ITC as applicable, of the portion of the

   invoice in dispute at or prior to the time of payment, the Transmission Provider or ITC as

   applicable, will cause the disputed amount to be deposited in an account separate from its general

   operating account, pending resolution of the dispute. All such disputes shall be governed by the

   dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 12 of this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: May 28, 2026
MISO                                                                                                   7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Billing Procedure for Market Participants:
MODULES                                                                                             33.0.0


   Billing Procedures for Module C, Part II of Module F, and RAR: On a weekly basis, the

   Transmission Provider shall submit two (2) or more invoices to the Market Participant for the

   charges for all services and goods furnished under Module C, Part II of Module F, and charges

   under RAR of this Tariff based on the schedule posted in the market settlements timeline as

   posted on the Transmission Provider website.

          One weekly invoice relates to all services and goods for which the Transmission Provider

   will settle, bill, collect and distribute revenues to the Market Participants for Market Activities

   including services provided under Part II of Module F, charges under RAR. The Market

   Participant shall have no right to any amount of payment with respect to the services and goods

   furnished under Module C, RAR or Module F of this Tariff until all of the credit and debit

   amounts with respect to the Market Participant for the respective billing cycle for all services and

   goods furnished under Module C, charges pursuant to RAR, or Module F of this Tariff

   (including prior period adjustments) have been added together, netted against one another and

   invoiced. The Transmission Provider invoices based on a seven-day billing period. The weekly

   invoice contains Settlement charges and revenue that are published seven days after the

   Operating Day during the week prior to invoice issuance. The weekly invoice also includes

   adjustments for previously invoiced Settlement charges and revenue that are published the week

   prior to invoice issuance.

   The Market Participant shall only be entitled to the net credit amount, if any, invoiced to the

   Market Participant for the respective billing period (together with prior period adjustments),

   subject to the Transmission Provider’s right to be paid first pursuant to Section 7.8(a), the setoff

   and recoupment rights of Transmission Provider set forth in Section 7.20 and any security




                                                                               Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                                   7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Billing Procedure for Market Participants:
MODULES                                                                                             33.0.0


   interests that the Market Participant grants to the Transmission Provider. The Market Participant

   shall have no right to any gross charges and/or credits listed on such invoice. The Market

   Participant shall have no right to any amount prior to invoicing.

   The second weekly invoice relates to the service charge for recovering costs associated with

   providing the services under Module C, Module D, RAR and Part II of Module F. These costs

   are captured within a separate invoice line item, Schedules 16 and 17, including the costs

   associated with the Transmission Provider administration of Financial Transmission Rights and

   Energy Market Support Administration.

   If needed, a third weekly invoice may be issued relating to ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance

   Charges pursuant to RAR.

   All invoices with net charges to be paid by a Market Participant issued pursuant to this Section

   7.6(a) shall be paid by the Market Participant within seven (7) days of receipt. All invoices with

   net credit amounts to be paid to a Market Participant issued pursuant to this Section 7.6(a) shall

   be due and payable by the Transmission Provider to the Market Participant twenty-four (24) to

   forty-eight (48) hours following invoice due dates in accordance with the Market Settlements

   Business Practices Manual, as amended from time to time, subject to the Transmission

   Provider’s right to be paid first pursuant to Section 7.8(a), the setoff and recoupment rights of the

   Transmission Provider set forth in Section 7.20 and any security interests that the Market

   Participant grants to the Transmission Provider.

   All billing procedures involving invoices under this Section 7.6 or with respect to Module C,

   Module D, RAR and Part II of Module F of this Tariff shall be governed by Section 41 of this

   Tariff and the Market Settlements Business Practices Manual, as amended from time to time.




                                                                              Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                                  7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Billing Procedure for Market Participants:
MODULES                                                                                            33.0.0


   The Market Settlements Business Practices Manual and the market settlements timeline are

   available for inspection by the Market Participant(s), regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over

   the Market Participants, and the public, and are posted on the Transmission Provider website.




                                                                             Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                                  7.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Interest on Unpaid Balances:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


    Interest on any unpaid amounts (not including amounts placed in a cash collateral account as

   Financial Security) shall be calculated in accordance with Section 7.3.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                7.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Market Participant Default and Past Due Amounts:
MODULES                                                                                          34.0.0


   The rights and remedies set forth in this Section 7.8 are in addition to, and not in limitation of,

   any and all other remedies available under this Tariff, any other agreement or under applicable

   law. Upon the occurrence of a Default, the Transmission Provider shall initiate a filing with the

   Commission to terminate the Market Participant Agreement and any Service Agreements, unless

   the Market Participant is in bankruptcy as set forth within Section 7.16.1(e) and such a filing

   would legally conflict with that bankruptcy petition or proceeding. The Transmission Provider

   shall not terminate the Market Participant Agreement and Service Agreements until the

   Commission so approves any such request. In addition, the Transmission Provider shall provide

   notice to the Market Participant if it intends to initiate a filing with the Commission to terminate

   the Market Participant Agreement and any Service Agreements, in accordance with Commission

   policy.

   If any amounts invoiced by the Transmission Provider, pursuant to Section 7.6 are not paid when

   due (the “Past Due Amount”) then the following procedures apply:

   (a)       Transmission Provider Charges Paid First. The Transmission Provider shall use monies

   received by it from Market Participants to pay all amounts due to the Transmission Provider

   under this Tariff and the ISO Agreement before making any payments to any other Market

   Participants.

   (b)       Reduction of Payments and Increases in Charges. If the procedures described in

   subsection (d) below do not yield sufficient funds to pay all invoiced amounts in full (after

   payment of amounts due to the Transmission Provider in accordance with subsection (a) above)

   on the date such payments are due, the Transmission Provider shall reduce payments to Market

   Participants owed monies for that billing period (the “Past Due Period”), pro rata based on the




                                                                             Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                7.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Market Participant Default and Past Due Amounts:
MODULES                                                                                          34.0.0


   net credit invoiced amounts owed to such Market Participants, to the extent necessary to clear its

   accounts by the close of banking business on the date such payments are due. If the non-

   payment is a failure of a party to a Financial Schedule to pay the Financial Schedule related

   charge owed by it, the Transmission Provider shall reduce the payment to the other party to the

   Financial Schedule rather than following the procedure in the preceding sentence and any

   amounts received by the Transmission Provider attributable to that the Financial Schedule shall

   be paid to the proper party rather than following the procedure in the following sentence. If the

   non-payment is a failure of a Market Participant to pay ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges,

   then the rights and remedies set forth in Section 7.13 below shall apply. As funds attributable to

   a Past Due Amount are received by the Transmission Provider (including amounts received

   through actions or proceedings commenced against the defaulting Market Participant) prior to

   the next billing period’s statements being distributed, and prior to such Past Due Amount being

   declared an Uncollectible Obligation pursuant to, Section 7.10, such funds, together with any

   interest and late charges collected on the applicable Past Due Amount, shall be distributed pro

   rata to the Market Participants that did not receive the full amount of their net credit invoiced

   amount as a result of such Past Due Amount not being paid, subject to the Transmission

   Provider’s right to be paid first pursuant to (a) above, the set off and recoupment rights of the

   Transmission Provider set forth in Section 7.20 and any security interests that the Market

   Participant grants to the Transmission Provider.

   (c)    Order of Settlement. As payments are received by the Transmission Provider to satisfy

   outstanding Past Due Amounts the oldest outstanding Past Due Amount will be settled first in

   the order of the creation of such obligations.




                                                                             Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              7.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Market Participant Default and Past Due Amounts:
MODULES                                                                                        34.0.0


   (d)    Enforcing Setoff and Security. The Transmission Provider may exercise its rights of

   recoupment and setoff pursuant to Section 7.17 and Section 7.20, to offset the Past Due Amount

   against any amounts owed to the Market Participant. The Transmission Provider shall use funds

   attained under the Credit Support Documents provided by the Market Participant to the extent

   necessary to pay the Past Due Amount and any applicable interest and late charges. Any use of

   Credit Support Documents shall be undertaken in compliance with Section 7.17 of this Tariff, the

   Credit Policy and the Credit Support Documents.




                                                                         Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              7.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Disputed Amounts:
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   A Market Participant shall make full and timely payment of all bills rendered pursuant to Section

   7.6 and 7.11 or otherwise rendered for Market Activities including services provided under RAR

   and Part II of Module F regardless of any dispute, but such payment shall not be deemed a

   waiver with respect to any disputed amount. All disputes of invoiced amounts shall be subject to

   the dispute resolution procedures of Section 12 of this Tariff.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                                7.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Uplift of Uncollectible Past Due Amounts
MODULES                                                                                           34.0.0


   At such time as the Transmission Provider concludes that the Transmission Provider does not

   reasonably expect payment in full of an unpaid Past Due Amount (excluding charges relating to

   Financial Schedules) within an acceptable time period, then the Transmission Provider shall

   declare such unpaid Past Due Amount to be an Uncollectible Obligation. This Section does not

   apply to invoices associated with a Capacity Deficiency Charge or ICAP Deferral Non-

   Compliance Charges under RAR or charges relating to Financial Schedules. The Transmission

   Provider will notify Market Participants of the declaration of an Uncollectible Obligation by

   posting a notice to the OASIS. Such notification will identify the defaulting Market Participant,

   the amount of the Uncollectible Obligation, the applicable week(s) of service for which the

   defaulting Market Participant was initially invoiced the Uncollectible Obligation and the future

   billing week(s) in which the Transmission Provider will uplift the Uncollectible Obligation. The

   Transmission Provider will take the following steps prior to declaring an unpaid Past Due

   Amount to be an Uncollectible Obligation: (i) set aside all funds held by the Transmission

   Provider relative to the defaulting Market Participant, pending determination by Transmission

   Provider’s counsel and/or the appropriate bankruptcy courts as to the appropriate disposition of

   such funds; (ii) seek to recover the unpaid Past Due Amount by drawing upon the entire amount

   of collateral provided by the defaulting Market Participant; (iii) seek to recover the amount of the

   unpaid Past Due Amount from any guarantor of the defaulting Market Participant’s obligations;

   (iv) seek to exercise other remedies under the Credit Support Documents provided by the

   defaulting Market Participant; and (v) pursue available remedies for defaults under this Section

   7, including, without limitation, initiating a filing with the Commission to terminate the Market

   Participant Agreement and any Service Agreements of the defaulting Market Participant.




                                                                               Effective On: May 1, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 7.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Uplift of Uncollectible Past Due Amounts
MODULES                                                                                            34.0.0


   The Transmission Provider may deviate from the above, or pursue alternative cost recovery

   measures if it determines, in its discretion, that doing so would be more likely to minimize the

   size of, or avoid, the Uncollectible Obligation and/or uncollectible costs of enforcement or

   collection. The Transmission Provider may take any alternate actions it deems necessary to

   avoid the uncollectible costs of enforcement or collection in order to reduce the uplift of the

   Uncollectible Obligation assessed to Market Participants.

   Upon declaration of the existence of an Uncollectible Obligation, the Transmission Provider

   shall proceed to recover the Uncollectible Obligation from other Market Participants in

   accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.10. This Section 7.10 applies to amounts

   invoiced to Market Participants pursuant to Section 7.6 and any other amounts invoiced for

   Market Activities. This Section does not apply to invoices associated with a Capacity

   Deficiency Charge or ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges under RAR.

   (a)    Eligibility for Share of Uncollectible Obligation.

   The Uncollectible Obligation shall be allocated by the Transmission Provider to each Market

   Participant that had been invoiced by the Transmission Provider during the same period of time

   as the unpaid invoice(s) of the Market Participant whose unpaid Past Due Amount has been

   declared an Uncollectible Obligation.

   (b)    Uncollectible Obligation Allocation Methodology.

   The formula below will be the basis for allocating the Uncollectible Obligation to other Market

   Participants. The calculations in this section exclude charges associated with Financial

   Schedules.




                                                                               Effective On: May 1, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 7.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Uplift of Uncollectible Past Due Amounts
MODULES                                                                                            34.0.0


   % Loss for MPA = MPA Market Charges + Market Credits in weekly invoicing cycle, plus the

   prior 11 weekly invoicing cycles of Market Charges and Market Credits / MPALL (Market

   Charges + Market Credits) in weekly invoicing cycle, plus the prior 11 weekly invoicing cycles

   of Market Charges and Market Credits



   Loss Obligation of MPA = (% Loss for MPA) x $ Amt of Uncollectible Obligation,

   where: MP = Market Participant

          Market Charges = The absolute value of all charge amounts associated with invoices for

          Market Activities.

          Market Credits = The absolute value of all credit amounts associated with invoices for

          Market Activities.

          MPALL = All Market Participants other than Market Participants with Uncollectible

          Obligations.

   All individual charge amounts and all individual credit amounts invoiced for Market Activities

   including amounts related to service provided under Part II of Module F, charges applicable to

   Resource Adequacy Requirements (excluding the Capacity Deficiency Charge or ICAP Deferral

   Non-Compliance Charges) shall be included in the calculation of Market Charges and Market

   Credits. The Market Charges and Market Credits of Market Participants with Uncollectible

   Obligations will not be included in the calculation of the percentage of the loss to be allocated to

   other Market Participants.

   (c)    Application of Recovered Uncollectible Obligation. Any funds that are attributable to an

   Uncollectible Obligation that are recovered by the Transmission Provider (other than amounts




                                                                                Effective On: May 1, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 7.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Uplift of Uncollectible Past Due Amounts
MODULES                                                                                            34.0.0


   recovered by the uplift of the Uncollectible Obligations) after the Uncollectible Obligation has

   been uplifted pursuant to this Section 7.10 shall first be applied to satisfy costs of enforcement

   and collection owed by the defaulting Market Participant. Any remaining funds attributable to

   an uplifted Uncollectible Obligation, together with any remaining interest and late charges

   collected with respect to the uplifted Uncollectible Obligation, shall be distributed pro rata to the

   Market Participants, using the same formula specified under Section 7.10.b to whom the

   Uncollectible Obligation was uplifted pursuant to this Section 7.10 and who satisfied their

   obligation to pay the uplifted Uncollectible Obligation.

   (d)    Cure by Market Participant. Neither the declaration of a Past Due Amount as an

   Uncollectible Obligation nor the uplift of the Uncollectible Obligation to the other Market

   Participants under this section shall operate as a release of the Past Due Amount or prevent the

   Transmission Provider from continuing to attempt collection of the Past Due Amount from the

   defaulting Market Participant. Once a Market Participant’s Uncollectible Obligation has been

   uplifted to other Market Participants, the defaulting Market Participant must take the following

   steps to cure its default: (i) pay all unpaid obligations to the Transmission Provider, including,

   without limitation, the amount of the Uncollectible Obligation, interest as required by Section 7.3

   and Section 7.7 and enforcement and collection costs as required by Section 7.17(d); and (ii)

   meet the creditworthiness requirements of the Transmission Provider, including, without

   limitation, any additional financial assurances that may be required by the Transmission Provider

   given the Market Participant’s prior Default.




                                                                                Effective On: May 1, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 7.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Billing Procedure for Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                            35.0.0


   Billing Procedure for Capacity Deficiency Charges, Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt

   Out Deficiency Charge and Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge

   Five (5) business days after the assessment of the Capacity Deficiency Charge, RBDC Opt Out

   Deficiency Charge or Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge; or as soon as practical

   thereafter the Transmission Provider shall submit an invoice to Market Participants for charges

   owed that are associated with capacity deficiencies or Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance

   Charge pursuant to the Tariff.

   All invoices with charges to be paid by a Market Participant issued pursuant to this Section 7.11

   shall be paid by the Market Participant within seven (7) business days of receipt. The Market

   Participant shall have no right to any amount of payment with respect to the services and goods

   furnished under Resource Adequacy Requirements of this Tariff until all of the credit and debit

   amounts with respect to the Market Participant for the respective billing cycle for all services and

   goods furnished under RAR of this Tariff (including prior period adjustments) have been added

   together, netted against one another and invoiced. The Market Participant shall only be entitled

   to the net credit amount, if any, invoiced to the Market Participant for the respective billing

   period (together with prior period adjustments), subject to the Transmission Provider’s right to

   be paid first pursuant to Section 7.13(a), the setoff and recoupment rights of Transmission

   Provider set forth in Section 7.20 and any security interests that the Market Participant grants to

   the Transmission Provider. The Market Participant shall have no right to any gross charges

   and/or credits listed on such invoice. The Market Participant shall have no right to any amount

   prior to invoicing.

   All invoices with net charges to be paid by a Market Participant issued pursuant to this Section




                                                                                Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                7.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Billing Procedure for Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


   7.11 shall be paid by the Market Participant within two (2) business days of receipt. All invoices

   with net credit amounts to be paid to a Market Participant issued pursuant to this Section 7.11

   shall be due and payable by the Transmission Provider to the Market Participant twenty-four (24)

   to forty-eight (48) hours following invoice due dates subject to the Transmission Provider’s right

   to be paid first pursuant to Section 7.13(a), the setoff and recoupment rights of the Transmission

   Provider set forth in Section 7.20 and any security interests that the Market Participant grants to

   the Transmission Provider. All payments by Market Participants shall be made in immediately

   available funds payable to the Transmission Provider.




                                                                               Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 7.12
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Interest on Update Balances:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Interest on any unpaid amounts (not including amounts placed in a cash collateral account as

   Financial Security) shall be calculated in accordance with Section 7.3.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                7.13
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Default and Past Due Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                           37.0.0


   Default and Past Due Capacity Deficiency Charge, Reliability Based Demand Curve Opt

   Out Deficiency Charge, Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge and ICAP

   Deferral Non-Compliance Charges

   The rights and remedies set forth in this Section 7.13 are in addition to, and not in limitation of,

   any and all other remedies available under this Tariff, any other agreement or under applicable

   law. Upon the occurrence of a Default, the Transmission Provider shall initiate a filing with the

   Commission to terminate the Market Participant Agreement but shall not terminate the Market

   Participant Agreement until the Commission so approves any such request. In addition, the

   Transmission Provider shall provide notice to the Market Participant of its intention to initiate a

   filing with the Commission to terminate the Market Participant Agreement, in accordance with

   Commission policy.

   If any Capacity Deficiency Charge, RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge, Capacity Replacement

   Non-Compliance Charge, or ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charge amounts invoiced by the

   Transmission Provider are not paid when due (the “Past Due Amount”) then the following

   procedures apply:

   (a)    Transmission Provider Charges Paid First. The Transmission Provider shall use monies

   received by it from Market Participants to pay all amounts due to the Transmission Provider

   under this Tariff and the ISO Agreement before making any payments to any other Market

   Participants.

   (b)    Reduction of Payment for Capacity Deficiency Charge, RBDC Opt Out Deficiency

   Charge, Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge, or ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance

   Charges: If the procedures described in subsection (d) below do not yield sufficient funds to pay




                                                                                Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                7.13
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Default and Past Due Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                           37.0.0


   all invoiced amounts in full (after payment of amounts due to the Transmission Provider in

   accordance with subsection (a) above) on the date such payments are due, then the Transmission

   Provider shall reduce payment to Load Serving Entities due Capacity Deficiency Charge, RBDC

   Opt Out Deficiency Charge, Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge, or ICAP Deferral

   Non-Compliance Charges revenue per RAR, for that billing period, pro rata, based upon MW of

   annual peak load of LSEs that have met or exceeded their RAR in the applicable Local Resource

   Zone(s) during the applicable Planning Year, to the extent necessary to clear its accounts by the

   close of banking business on the date such payments are due.

   As funds attributable to a Past Due Amount are received by the Transmission Provider (including

   amounts received through actions or proceedings commenced against the defaulting Market

   Participant) prior to the next billing period’s statements being distributed, together with any

   interest and late charges collected on the applicable Past Due Amount, shall be distributed pro

   rata to the Market Participants that did not receive the full amount of their net credit invoiced

   amount as a result of such Past Due Amount not being paid, subject to the Transmission

   Provider’s right to be paid first pursuant to (a) above, the set off and recoupment rights of the

   Transmission Provider set forth in Section 7.20 and any security interests that the Market

   Participant grants to the Transmission Provider.

   (c)    Order of Settlement. As payments are received by the Transmission Provider to satisfy

   outstanding Past Due Amounts the oldest outstanding Past Due Amount will be settled first in

   the order of the creation of such obligations.

   (d)    Enforcing Setoff and Security. The Transmission Provider may exercise its rights of

   recoupment and setoff pursuant to Section 7.17 and Section 7.20, to offset the Past Due Amount




                                                                                Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                             7.13
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Default and Past Due Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                        37.0.0


   against any amounts owed to the Market Participant. The Transmission Provider shall use funds

   attained under the Credit Support Documents provided by the Market Participant to the extent

   necessary to pay the Past Due Amount and any applicable interest and late charges. Any use of

   Credit Support Documents shall be undertaken in compliance with Section 7.17 of this Tariff, the

   Credit Policy and the Credit Support Documents.

   In the event the Transmission Provider reduces payments owed to Market Participants due to

   non-payment of Capacity Deficiency Charges, RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge, Capacity

   Replacement Non-Compliance Charge, or ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges under RAR

   there will be no declaration of an Uncollectible Obligation associated with such non-payment

   and no uplift of the unpaid amount.




                                                                            Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                               7.14
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Financial Security Required Due to Failure to Pay
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   Notwithstanding the provisions of the Credit Policy of the Transmission Provider (Attachment

   L), there are two circumstances under which Financial Security, or adequate assurance if the

   Tariff Customer is in bankruptcy as set forth within Section 7.16.1(e) and such Financial

   Security would conflict with the bankruptcy petition or proceeding, shall be required from a

   Tariff Customer for failure to pay invoices when due:

   1)     Failure to pay a Transmission Service invoice within the required payment and cure

   period, and

   2)     History of late payment.

   The Financial Security requirements associated with each of these two sets of circumstances are

   provided in Section 7.14.1 and Section 7.14.2, respectively.




                                                                          Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                7.14.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Failure to Pay a Transmission Service Invoice
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   In the event a Tariff Customer fails to pay a Transmission Service invoice issued in accordance

   with the provisions of Section 7.1 within the required payment period defined in Section 7.1

   (e.g., seven (7) Days) and the cure period for non-payment defined in Section 7.8(a) (e.g., two

   (2) Business Days), the Transmission Provider, or ITC where applicable, will require Financial

   Security from the Tariff Customer in a form acceptable to the Transmission Provider and in an

   amount equal to the total invoiced charges for the month with the highest total invoiced charges

   over the most recent twelve months (not including Past Due Amounts carried forward from a

   prior invoice) times the ratio of sixty (60) days to thirty (30) days, or 2.00.

   This requirement to provide Financial Security due to failure to pay a Transmission Service

   invoice within the required payment period and cure period is applicable to a Tariff Customer

   regardless of whether the Tariff Customer was previously extended unsecured credit by the

   Transmission Provider, or ITC where applicable, and/or previously provided any Financial

   Security as part of its Total Credit Limit. Further, the Financial Security required pursuant to

   this Section 7.14 is in addition to any previously provided Financial Security.

   The Financial Security so provided shall be reserved to satisfy obligations for any future

   Transmission Service payment that is not paid by the payment due date specified in Section 7.1.

   If, subsequent to the date of the requirement to provide Financial Security due to a failure to pay

   a Transmission Service invoice within the required payment due date and cure period, all Tariff

   Customer payments during the following six months are paid on time, the Financial Security

   provided due to failure to pay a Transmission Service invoice within the required payment due

   date and cure period will be returned to the Tariff Customer.




                                                                              Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                               7.14.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Failure to Pay a Transmission Service Invoice
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   Should the Tariff Customer again fail to pay a Transmission Service invoice within the required

   payment due date and cure period subsequent to the return of the initial Financial Security

   requirement due to failure to pay a Transmission Service invoice within the required payment

   due date and cure period, the Tariff Customer will be required to immediately provide Financial

   Security in a form acceptable to the Transmission Provider and in an amount equal to the total

   invoiced charges for the month with the highest total invoiced charges over the most recent

   twelve months (not including Past Due Amounts carried over from prior invoices) times the ratio

   of sixty (60) days to thirty (30) days, or 2.00, or adequate assurance if the Tariff Customer is in

   bankruptcy as set forth within Section 7.16.1(e), and demanding such Financial Security would

   present a legal conflict with that bankruptcy petition or proceeding. Such Financial Security

   provided due to failure to pay a Transmission Service invoice within the required payment due

   date and cure period will be returned to the Tariff Customer if all subsequent Tariff Customer

   payments over the next twelve months are made on time. This process will be repeated for each

   subsequent event of failure to pay a Transmission Service invoice within the required payment

   due date and cure period.




                                                                             Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                7.14.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             History of Late Payment:
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   In the event that a Tariff Customer has a history of paying its invoice late, defined as two invoice

   payments made past the invoice due date within the most recent twelve month period, the

   Transmission Provider, or ITC where applicable, will require Financial Security from the Tariff

   Customer in a form acceptable to the Transmission Provider and in an amount equal to the total

   invoiced charges for the month with the highest total invoiced charges over the most recent

   twelve months, not including Past Due Amounts carried forward from a prior invoice, or

   adequate assurance if the Tariff Customer is in bankruptcy as set forth in Section 7.16.1(e) and

   such Financial Security would conflict with that bankruptcy proceeding or petition. This

   requirement to provide Financial Security due to a history of late payment is applicable to a

   Tariff Customer regardless of whether the Tariff Customer was previously extended unsecured

   credit by the Transmission Provider, or ITC where applicable and/or previously provided any

   Financial Security as part of its Total Credit Limit. The Financial Security so provided shall be

   used to satisfy obligations for payments that are past due. If, subsequent to the date of the

   requirement to provide Financial Security due to a history of late payments, all Tariff Customer

   payments during the following six months are paid on time, the Financial Security provided due

   to a history of late payment will be returned to the Tariff Customer.

          Should the Tariff Customer again fail to pay on time subsequent to the return of the initial

   Financial Security requirement due to a history of late payments, the Tariff Customer will be

   required to immediately provide Financial Security in a form acceptable to the Transmission

   Provider and in an amount equal to the total invoiced charges for the month with the highest total

   invoiced charges over the most recent twelve months, not including Past Due Amounts carried

   over from prior invoices, or adequate assurance if the Tariff Customer is in bankruptcy as set




                                                                            Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                               7.14.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            History of Late Payment:
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   forth in Section 7.16.1(e) and such Financial Security would conflict with that bankruptcy

   petition or proceeding. Such Financial Security provided due to a history of late payment will be

   returned to the Tariff Customer if all subsequent Tariff Customer payments over the next twelve

   months are made on time. This process will be repeated for each subsequent event of failure to

   pay on time.

   During any period of time the Transmission Provider, or ITC if applicable, holds a Financial

   Security due to a history of late payment and the Tariff Customer or Market Participant does not

   pay on time, the Transmission Provider, or ITC if applicable, will draw upon that Financial

   Security to cover any invoice not paid by the payment due date. Such draw shall occur on the

   first Business Day after the payment due date. Interest and late fees will be assessed until the

   Tariff Customer: (1) pays all outstanding amounts owed, and (2) replenishes the Financial

   Security to the original amount. The interest rate shall be calculated in accordance with Section

   7.3.




                                                                            Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                7.15
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Financial Assurance Cash Collateral Accounts:
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   All monies deposited by a Tariff Customer as financial assurance will be held by the

   Transmission Provider in a separate, interest-bearing money market account and 100% of the

   interest earned will accrue to the benefit of that Tariff Customer. Interest shall be calculated

   from the date of the receipt of the deposit until the date that the deposit is returned, converted

   into another form of financial assurance or applied to satisfy past due amounts owed by the

   Tariff Customer. When deposits are made by mail, they shall be considered as having been paid

   on the date of receipt by the Transmission Provider. Interest accrued shall be held in the account

   as financial assurance until released from the account to the Tariff Customer in accordance with

   this Section 7.7 or applied to satisfy Past Due Amounts owed by the Tariff Customer.



   Unless a Default exists and is continuing, interest accrued and not applied to satisfy Past Due

   Amounts owed by the Tariff Customer shall be released from the account and paid to the Tariff

   Customer on a semiannual basis or on such other basis as determined by the Transmission

   Provider in its discretion; provided that interest shall be released from the account at least

   annually (unless a Default exists and is continuing). The Transmission Provider shall have no

   obligation to release any interest held by the Transmission Provider if a Default exists and is

   continuing.




                                                                             Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                    7.16
FERC Electric Tariff   Default or Potential Event of Default:
MODULES                                               30.0.0




                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 7.16.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                Default:
MODULES                                                                                              32.0.0


          The occurrence at any time with respect to a Tariff Customer of any of the following

   events constitutes a default (“Default”) with respect to such Tariff Customer:


   (a)    Failure by the Tariff Customer to make, when due, any payment under Section 7.1,

   Section 7.2, Section 7.22 or Section 7.23, failure to provide Financial Security under Section

   7.14.1, or Section 7.14.2 if such failure is not remedied on or before the second (2nd) Business

   Day after receipt by the Tariff Customer of a written notice to cure such failure sent by the

   Transmission Provider, or an ITC where applicable;

   (b)    Failure to Pay Section 7.6 Amounts. Failure by the Tariff Customer to make, when due,

   any payment under Section 7.6 of this Tariff for any reason if such failure if not remedied on or

   before the second (2nd) Business Day after the Tariff Customer’s receipt of notification to cure

   such failure sent by the Transmission Provider;

   (c)    Failure to Pay Section 7.11 Amounts. Failure by the Tariff Customer to make, when due,

   any payment under Section 7.11 of this Tariff for any reason if such failure if not remedied on or

   before the second (2nd) Business Day after the Tariff Customer’s receipt of notification to cure

   such failure sent by the Transmission Provider.

   (d)    Failure to Perform Other Obligations. Failure by the Tariff Customer to make, when due,

   any payment or comply with or perform any agreement, obligation or requirement under this

   Tariff (including, without limitation, the Transmission Provider’s Credit Policy), any of the

   agreements entered into by such Tariff Customer under, pursuant to, or in connection with this

   Tariff or any other agreement to which the Tariff Customer and the Transmission Provider are

   parties (including, without limitation, any Commission-approved settlement agreement to which

   the Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer are parties, regardless of when executed and




                                                                            Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                   7.16.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                  Default:
MODULES                                                                                                32.0.0


   without exclusion of any agreement entered into by such Tariff Customer under, pursuant to, or

   in connection with this Tariff or any other agreement to which the Tariff Customer and the

   Transmission Provider are parties regardless of when executed; provided, however, that defaults

   of any payment under Section 7.1, Section 7.2, Section 17.19.1, Section 7.17.1 or Section 7.24 of

   this Tariff shall be addressed under Section 7.16(a) of this Tariff and any defaults of any

   payment under Section 7.6 of this Tariff shall be addressed under Section 7.16(b) of this Tariff);

   if such failure is not remedied on or before the later of (i) the expiration of the applicable cure

   period set forth in this Tariff or the applicable agreement, or (ii) the second (2nd) Business Day

   after the Tariff Customer receives written notice to cure such failure sent by the Transmission

   Provider;

   (e)    Bankruptcy. The Tariff Customer (A) is dissolved (other than pursuant to a

   consolidation, amalgamation or merger); (B) becomes insolvent or is unable to pay its debts or

   fails or admits in writing its inability generally to pay its debts as they become due; (C) makes a

   general assignment, arrangement or composition with or for the benefit of its creditors; (D)

   institutes or has instituted against it a proceeding seeking a judgment of insolvency or

   bankruptcy or any other relief under any bankruptcy or insolvency law or similar law affecting

   creditors’ rights, or a petition is presented for its winding-up or liquidation, and, in the case of

   any such proceeding or petition instituted or presented against it, such proceeding or petition (1)

   results in the judgment of insolvency or bankruptcy or the entry of an order for relief or the

   making of an order for its winding-up or liquidation or (2) is not dismissed, discharged, stayed or

   restrained in each case within thirty (30) days of the institution or presentation thereof; (E) has a

   resolution passed for its winding-up, official management or liquidation (other than pursuant to a




                                                                              Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                     7.16.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                    Default:
MODULES                                                                                                  32.0.0


   consolidation, amalgamation or merger); (F) seeks or becomes subject to the appointment of an

   administrator, provisional liquidator, conservator, receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar

   official for it or for all or a significant portion of its assets; (G) has a secured party take

   possession of all or a significant portion of its assets or has a distress, execution, attachment,

   sequestration or other legal process levied, enforced or sued on or against all or a significant

   portion of its assets and such secured party maintains possession, or any such process is not

   dismissed, discharged, stayed or restrained, in each case within 30 days thereafter; (H) causes or

   is subject to any event with respect to it which, under the applicable laws of any jurisdiction, has

   an analogous effect to any of the events specified in clauses (A) through (G); or (I) takes any

   action in furtherance of, or indicating its consent to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any of the

   foregoing acts.

           Any Default with respect to a Tariff Customer shall constitute a Default under this Tariff

   (including, without limitation, the Transmission Provider’s Credit Policy), any and all

   agreements entered into by such Tariff Customer under, pursuant to, or in connection with, this

   Tariff and any and all other agreements to which such Tariff Customer and the Transmission

   Provider are parties (including, without limitation, any Commission-approved settlement

   agreement to which the Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer are parties), regardless of

   when executed and without exclusion of any agreement entered into by such Tariff Customer

   under, pursuant to, or in connection with this Tariff or any other agreement to which the Tariff

   Customer and the Transmission Provider are parties regardless of when executed; provided,

   however, that defaults of any payment under Section 7.1 or Section 7.2 of this Tariff shall be

   addressed under Section 7.13(a) of this Tariff and any defaults of any payment under Section 7.6




                                                                                Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                               7.16.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                              Default:
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


   of this Tariff shall be addressed under Section 7.13(b) of this Tariff. Any Tariff Customer found

   to be in Default shall take all possible measures to mitigate the continued impact of the Default,

   including, but not limited to, loading its own Generation Resources to supply its own Load to the

   maximum extent possible.




                                                                           Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 7.16.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Potential Event of Default
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The occurrence at any time with respect to a Tariff Customer of the following event constitutes a

   potential event of default (“Potential Event of Default”) with respect to such Tariff Customer:

   (a)    A continuing event which, with notice or passage of time, or both, would constitute a

   Default under Section 7.16.1(a), 7.16.1(b) or under Attachment L of this Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 7.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            Remedies:
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   (a)    Available Remedies.

   (1)    If at any time a Default occurs and is continuing, the Transmission Provider may (i)

   exercise the remedies set forth in Section 7.4 or Section 7.8; (ii) except as provided in Section

   7.17(a)(2), suspend any and all services a Tariff Customer in Default receives under its Service

   Agreement(s), Market Participant Agreement, other agreements and/or this Tariff (including

   such Tariff Customer’s access to the Energy Markets and FTR Auction) subject to the receipt of

   approval from the Commission; (iii) terminate any and all other services and/or agreements,

   subject to the receipt of approval to terminate and settle any and all FTRs held by such Tariff

   Customer from the Commission and any other approvals from the Commission that may be

   necessary; (iv) initiate requests for any necessary Commission approvals or consents to terminate

   any and all services to and agreements with the Tariff Customer; (v) terminate and settle any and

   all FTRs held by such Tariff Customer in accordance with Section 7.19 below, subject to the

   receipt of approval to terminate and settle such FTRs from the Commission; (vi) liquidate all or a

   portion of the Tariff Customer’s Financial Security and otherwise exercise the Transmission

   Provider’s rights under any or all of the Credit Support Documents, at the Transmission

   Provider’s discretion to satisfy total amounts due and payable by the Tariff Customer; and (vii)

   proceed to exercise any and all remedies available to the Transmission Provider under this Tariff

   and/or any applicable agreements or otherwise under applicable law.

   (2)    In addition to any remedies described in Section 7.17(a)(1), if at any time a Default under

   Section 7.16.1(a), 7.16.2(b) or Attachment L of this Tariff, or a Potential Event of Default under

   Section 7.16.2(a), occurs and is continuing, the Transmission Provider shall have the right to

   suspend, without having to obtain approval from the Commission, any and all services the




                                                                            Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                    7.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                               Remedies:
MODULES                                                                                               31.0.0


   defaulting Tariff Customer receives under its Service Agreement(s), Market Participant

   Agreement, other agreements and/or this Tariff (including such Tariff Customer’s access to the

   Energy Markets and FTR Auction); provided that any such suspension is effectuated upon one

   (1) Business Day notice to the affected Tariff Customer and the Commission. Notwithstanding

   the foregoing, any suspension of service to Load Serving Entities in non-retail choice states and

   to retail suppliers/providers of last resort in retail choice states shall be effectuated only upon the

   receipt of approval from the Commission.

   In the event of such failure to cure under this Section 7.17, the Transmission Provider shall have

   the right to notify all Market Participants, including a separate and specific notice to the Provider

   of Last Resort, of a pending suspension of an individual Market Participant, including

   identification of the defaulting Market Participant, the amount and type of the Default, and any

   additional available information that is deemed relevant in the Transmission Provider’s

   reasonable discretion. Notification of failure to cure shall be made to all Market Participants at

   the same time the Transmission Provider notifies FERC and the individual Market Participant.

   At such time as the Market Participant cures said Default, the Transmission Provider will

   immediately notify FERC and all other Market Participants of such cure.

   (b)    Non-Exclusive Remedies. No right or remedy conferred upon or reserved to the

   Transmission Provider under this Tariff (including, without limitation, the Transmission

   Provider’s Credit Policy), any agreement executed under, pursuant to or in connection with this

   Tariff and/or any other agreements between the Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer

   is intended to be or is exclusive of any other available remedy or right, but each and every

   remedy shall be cumulative and concurrent and shall be in addition to every other remedy now or




                                                                              Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                  7.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                             Remedies:
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   hereafter existing at law or in equity. No single or partial exercise of any power or right shall

   preclude any further or other exercise of any power or right.

   (c)    No Waiver. No delay or omission of the Transmission Provider to exercise any power or

   right under this Tariff (including, without limitation, the Transmission Provider’s Credit Policy),

   any agreement executed under, pursuant to, or in connection with this Tariff and/or any other

   agreements between the Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer shall impair such power

   or right or be construed as a waiver of any Default or an acquiescence therein and any single or

   partial exercise of any power or right shall not preclude other or further exercise thereof or the

   exercise of any other power or right. Course of dealing shall not be binding upon the

   Transmission Provider.

   (d)    Cost of Collection and Attorneys’ Fees. The Tariff Customer shall reimburse the

   Transmission Provider for any and all costs incurred by the Transmission Provider, including,

   reasonable attorneys’ fees, in connection with enforcing any obligations of, or collecting any

   amounts owed from, the Tariff Customer under this Tariff, any agreement entered into under,

   pursuant to, or in connection with this Tariff and/or any other agreement to which the

   Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer are parties.

   (e)    Amounts Payable in the Event of Default. Any amount payable to a Tariff Customer in

   the event of Default will, at the option of the Transmission Provider, be reduced by its set-off

   against any amount(s) payable (whether at such time or in the future or upon the occurrence of a

   contingency) by the Tariff Customer to the Transmission Provider under this Tariff, any

   agreement entered into under, pursuant to, or in connection with this Tariff and/or any other

   agreement between the Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer. If an obligation is not




                                                                             Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                   7.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                              Remedies:
MODULES                                                                                              31.0.0


   then ascertainable, the Transmission Provider may in good faith estimate that obligation and set-

   off in respect of an estimate, subject to the Transmission Provider accounting to the Tariff

   Customer when the obligation is ascertained.




                                                                           Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                    7.18
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                 Notices:
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   All notices to be delivered under or in connection with Section 7 (other than invoices) shall be in

   writing and shall be deemed to have been given and received (A) on the date of service if

   personally served on the Tariff Customer, (B) on the date transmission is sent via facsimile

   transmission or electronic mail, provided that telephonic, facsimile or electronic mail

   confirmation of receipt is obtained promptly after completion of transmission, (C) on the date

   after delivery to a nationally recognized overnight courier service or the Express Mail service

   maintained by the United States Postal Service, or (D) on the fifth (5th) day after mailing, if

   mailed to the Tariff Customer by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  7.19
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Closeout of FTRs:
MODULES                                                                                             32.0.0


          In the event of a Default as described in Section 7.16(d)(A),(C),(D),(E),(F) or, to the

   extent analogous thereto, (H), the termination of all FTRs held by the defaulting Tariff Customer

   shall occur immediately upon the occurrence of such a Default, and, with respect to a Default

   under Section 7.16.1(e), as of the time immediately preceding the institution of the relevant

   proceeding or the presentation of the relevant petition. In all cases of Default other than those

   enumerated in the preceding sentence, the Transmission Provider may terminate all FTRs held

   by the defaulting Tariff Customer by providing not less than ten (10) days written notice

   designating a day not earlier than the 10th day after the date of such notice as the termination

   date for such FTRs. However, for any Default, the Transmission Provider is not required to

   terminate any FTR if the Tariff Customer is in bankruptcy as set forth in Section 7.16.1(e) and

   such action would legally conflict with such bankruptcy petition or proceeding, or if such

   termination would, in the Transmission Provider’s reasonable discretion, reduce the

   Transmission Provider’s ability to mitigate losses or reduce its ability to recover and/or collect

   monies owed.

          On or as reasonably practicable following the last date that an FTR held by the Tariff

   Customer would have lapsed had the FTR not been terminated due to a Default, the

   Transmission Provider will make the calculations necessary to determine the Settlement Amount,

   as defined below, and will provide the Tariff Customer with a statement (i) showing, in

   reasonable detail, such calculations and (ii) giving details of the relevant FTR to which any

   amount payable is to be paid. The Settlement Amount will be payable on the second Business

   Day after the notice of the amount payable.

          The “Settlement Amount” will be equal to the total of (i) the amount that the




                                                                            Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                  7.19
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Closeout of FTRs:
MODULES                                                                                             32.0.0


   Transmission Provider reasonably determines in good faith to be its total losses and costs (or

   gain, in which case it shall be expressed as a negative number) in connection with termination of

   the FTRs held by the Market Participant upon a Default plus (ii) all unpaid amounts that the

   Tariff Customer owes (or is obligated to pay to) the Transmission Provider, minus (iii) all unpaid

   amounts that the Transmission Provider owes (or is obligated to pay) to the Tariff Customer.

   The total losses and costs in (i) above will be calculated for each FTR on the basis of, at the

   discretion of the Transmission Provider, either or a combination of (A) the amounts that would

   have been owed to and by the Tariff Customer with respect to the FTRs had such FTRs not

   terminated or (B) the amounts paid by or to purchasers of substantially similar FTRs at auctions

   administered by the Transmission Provider or in arm’s length transactions. If the Settlement

   Amount is a positive number, the Tariff Customer will pay it to the Transmission Provider; if it

   is a negative number, the Transmission Provider will pay the absolute value of that amount to the

   Tariff Customer. In circumstances where a Default occurs in connection with a bankruptcy, the

   amount determined under this Section will be subject to such adjustments as are appropriate and

   permitted by law. As losses and costs become determinable, the Transmission Provider will

   calculate the net amount of the determinable losses and costs on a weekly basis. If the net

   amount is a gain, the amount of the gain will be placed in an interest-bearing account (the

   “Settlement Account”).

          The Settlement Account will be adjusted weekly as additional losses and costs become

   determinable. Any interest that accumulates with respect to the Settlement Account will be

   included in the calculation of total net losses and costs as a negative cost or gain amount.




                                                                            Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              7.20
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Recoupment, Setoff and Netting:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   This Tariff (including, without limitation, the Transmission Provider’s Credit Policy) and all

   agreements entered into under, pursuant to, or in connection with this Tariff and any other

   agreements to which the Transmission Provider and the Tariff Customer are parties shall be

   viewed as a single agreement and the Transmission Provider shall have the right of setoff and

   recoupment with respect to all amounts that arise under this Tariff and/or any such agreements.

          The Transmission Provider shall have the right to recoup and/or setoff any amounts to be

   paid to the Transmission Provider by a Tariff Customer (including, without limitation, amounts

   to be settled, billed, collected and distributed by the Transmission Provider) against any amounts

   to be paid to the Tariff Customer by the Transmission Provider (including, without limitation,

   amounts to be settled, billed, collected and distributed by the Transmission Provider), whether

   such amounts arise under this Tariff, any agreement entered into under, pursuant to, or in

   connection with this Tariff and/or any other agreement to which the Transmission Provider and

   the Tariff Customer are parties.

          If on any date amounts, including, without limitation, payment allocations, debts, or other

   damages, prior period adjustments, interest or credits, are due and payable by the Tariff

   Customer, on the one hand, and the Transmission Provider, on the other, the Transmission

   Provider may automatically satisfy and discharge the obligation of the Transmission Provider to

   make payment of any such amount to Tariff Customer to the extent of the amount of the

   obligation of the Tariff Customer to make payment to the Transmission Provider by netting the

   aggregate amount payable by the Tariff Customer against the aggregate amount payable by the

   Transmission Provider to the Tariff Customer and replacing those payment obligations with a

   single payment obligation by the Transmission Provider or the Tariff Customer (whichever owes




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                7.20
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Recoupment, Setoff and Netting:
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   the larger such aggregate amount) to pay the net difference between such aggregate amounts on

   the applicable payment date. The rights of the Transmission Provider under this Section shall be

   in addition to its rights of setoff and other rights and remedies under this Tariff, any other

   agreement or applicable law.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 7.21
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Mitigation Obligation:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Any Tariff Customer with respect to whom a Default has occurred under this Tariff shall take all

   possible measures to mitigate the continued impact of the Default on the other Tariff Customers

   not in Default, including, but not limited to, loading its own generation to supply its own Load to

   the maximum extent possible.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          7.22
FERC Electric Tariff   Billing and Payment Provisions for Reliability Coordination
MODULES                                                                     30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              7.22.1
FERC Electric Tariff                           Billing Procedure for Reliability Coordination Customers:
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Within a reasonable time after the first day of each month, the Transmission Provider shall

   submit an invoice to each Reliability Coordination Customer with the charges for recovering

   costs associated with providing services under Part I of Module F. The charges on the monthly

   invoice shall be as specified in Schedule 31.

   The invoice issued pursuant to this Section 7.22.1 shall be paid by the Reliability Coordination

   Customer within seven (7) days of receipt. All payments shall be made in immediately available

   funds payable to the Transmission Provider.

   All billing procedures involving invoices under this Section 7.16.1 or with respect to Part I of

   Module F of this Tariff shall be governed by the Accounting and Billing Business Practices

   Manual. This manual is available for inspection by Tariff Customers, Transmission Owners,

   regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over Tariff Customers and Transmission Owners, and the

   public; and is posted on the Transmission Provider’s website.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           7.22.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Incorporation of Common Section 7 Provisions.
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   Reliability Coordination Service under Part I of Module F shall be governed by the terms of

   Section 7.3 and Sections 7.14 through 7.21 of this Tariff. For this purpose, all references to

   Transmission Customer or Tariff Customer in such provisions shall be deemed applicable to

   Reliability Coordination Customers under Part I of Module F.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            7.22.3
FERC Electric Tariff                            Reliability Coordination Customer Default and Past Due
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


    If any amounts invoiced by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 7.22.1 are not paid

   when due (the “Past Due Amount”), then the following procedures apply, unless the Tariff

   Customer is in bankruptcy as set forth within Section 7.16.1(e) and invoicing such amounts

   would legally conflict with such bankruptcy proceeding or petition:

   (a)    Unpaid Schedule 31 Charges Recovered under Schedule 10. The Transmission Provider

   shall include any unpaid amounts associated with invoices issued under Section 7.22.1 of the

   Tariff as a cost to be recovered under Schedule 10 of the Tariff during the subsequent month.

   The unpaid amounts under this section shall be included in the variable TRMA as defined in Part

   II.A of Schedule 10.

   (b)    Order of Settlement. As payments are received by the Transmission Provider to satisfy

   outstanding Past Due Amounts, the oldest outstanding Past Due Amount will be settled first in

   the order of the creation of such debts. The Past Due Amounts received, and any interest or late

   charges collected under Section 7.22.2, shall be used to offset the costs to be recovered under

   Schedule 10 in the month following receipt of the Past Due Amounts.

   (c)    Enforcing Security. The Transmission Provider shall use funds obtained under the Credit

   Support Documents provided by the Reliability Coordination Customer to the extent necessary to

   pay the Past Due Amount and any applicable interest and late charges. Any use of Credit

   Support Documents shall be undertaken in compliance with Module A of this Tariff, the Credit

   Policy and/or the Credit Support Documents.




                                                                           Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              7.22.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Disputed Amounts:
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


    If a Reliability Coordination Customer disputes the amount invoiced by the Transmission

   Provider pursuant to Section 7.22.1, the Reliability Coordination Customer must pay all invoiced

   amounts regardless of any dispute, but such payment shall not be deemed a waiver with respect

   to any disputed amount. If the Reliability Coordination Customer notifies the Transmission

   Provider of the portion of the invoice in dispute at or prior to the time of payment, the

   Transmission Provider will cause the disputed amount to be deposited in an account separate

   from its general operating account, pending resolution of the dispute. All such disputes shall be

   governed by the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Section 12 of this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                           7.23
FERC Electric Tariff   Billing and Payment Procedure under Module F
MODULES                                                      30.0.0




                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          7.23.1
FERC Electric Tariff                          Billing Procedure for Congestion Management Customers
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   On a weekly basis, the Transmission Provider shall include all applicable charges associated with

   Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Services under Part II of Module F on

   the invoices issued pursuant to Section 7.6.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           7.23.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Incorporation of Common Section 7 Provisions.
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service under Part II of Module F shall

   be governed by the terms of Sections 7.6 through 7.10 and Sections 7.14 through 7.21 of this

   Tariff. For this purpose, all references to Market Participant(s) in such provisions shall be

   deemed applicable to Congestion Management Customers under Part II of Module F. The term

   Market Activities as used in Section 7 of this Tariff includes all charges associated with service

   provided under Part II of Module F.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                7.24
FERC Electric Tariff                                Billing and Default Procedures in Event of a Penalty
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


          Once a final order from FERC regarding the Transmission Provider’s ability to recover

   penalty amounts is issued, the Transmission Provider shall invoice such amounts in accordance

   with the terms of Schedule 34 and the applicable FERC order, unless the penalized entity is in

   bankruptcy as set forth in Section 7.16.1(e) and invoicing such amounts would conflict with the

   penalized entity’s bankruptcy petition or proceeding.

          In the event that a Tariff Customer or Member fails to make the required payment(s)

   pursuant to this Section 7.24, then the provisions in Section 7.16 Default and any other

   applicable subsections of Section 7, shall apply to such Tariff Customer or Member for such

   non-payment.




                                                                           Effective On: January 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                                8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Accounting for Use of the Tariff
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider, ITC, ITC Participants, and Transmission Owner(s) shall record the

   following amounts, as outlined below, where applicable.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                             8.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                8.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Study Costs and Revenues:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


    Include in a separate transmission operating expense account or subaccount, costs properly

   chargeable to expense that are incurred relating to any System Impact Studies or Facilities

   Studies which the Transmission Owner, ITC, or ITC Participant conducts or is involved in to

   determine if it must construct new transmission facilities or upgrades necessary for its own uses,

   including making Third-Party Sales under this Tariff; and include in a separate operating revenue

   account or subaccount the revenues received for System Impact Studies or Facilities Studies

   performed or that the Transmission Owner, ITC, or ITC Participant was involved in when such

   amounts are separately stated and identified in the Transmission Customer’s or Coordination

   Customer’s billing under this Tariff.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     9
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Regulatory Filings
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


          Other than Appendix K of the ISO Agreement and the Settlement Agreement Between

   Transmission Owners and the Transmission Provider on Section 205 filing rights filed with the

   Commission on November 30, 2004 in Docket Nos. RT01-87, ER02 106, and ER02-108,

   nothing contained in this Tariff, any Service Agreement or any Market Participant Agreement

   shall be construed as affecting in any way the right of the Transmission Provider, ITC, ITC

   Participant(s) or Transmission Owner(s) to unilaterally make application to the Commission for a

   change in rates, terms and conditions, charges, classification of service, Service Agreement,

   Market Participant Agreement, rule or regulation under § 205 of the Federal Power Act and

   pursuant to the Commission’s rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; provided, however,

   the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owners are restricted in their ability to make

   certain changes as detailed in the ISO Agreement. The ITC, and not the Transmission Provider,

   shall be authorized to make unilateral applications for changes in ITC Rate Schedules, and any

   rate, term, condition, charge, classification of service, rule or regulation of such ITC Rate

   Schedules.

          Nothing contained in the Tariff, any Service Agreement, or any Market Participant

   Agreement shall be construed as affecting in any way the ability of any Party receiving service

   under the Tariff to exercise its rights under the Federal Power Act and pursuant to the

   Commission’s rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                            10
FERC Electric Tariff   Force Majeure, Indemnification, and Limitations of Liability
MODULES                                                                     30.0.0




                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 10.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Force Majeure:
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   An event of Force Majeure means any act of God, labor disturbance, act of the public enemy,

   war, insurrection, riot, fire, storm or flood, explosion, breakage or accident to machinery or

   equipment, any Curtailment, order, regulation or restriction imposed by governmental, military

   or lawfully established civilian authorities, or any other cause beyond a Party’s control. A Force

   Majeure event does not include an act of negligence or intentional wrongdoing. Neither the

   Transmission Provider, ITC, ITC Participant(s), Transmission Owner(s), Transmission

   Customer, Interconnection Customer, Interconnecting Transmission Owner, Coordination

   Customer, Market Participant nor any other Tariff Customer will be considered in default as to

   any obligation under this Tariff if prevented from fulfilling the obligation due to an event of

   Force Majeure. However, a Party whose performance under this Tariff is hindered by an event

   of Force Majeure shall make all reasonable efforts to perform its obligations under this Tariff.




                                                                             Effective On: March 1, 2016
MISO                                                                                                10.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                Indemnification by Customers and Market Participants
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The Transmission Customer, Coordination Customer and the Market Participant shall at all times

   indemnify, defend and save the Transmission Provider, ITC, ITC Participant(s), Interconnection

   Customer, Interconnecting Transmission Owner and Transmission Owner(s) harmless from, any

   and all damages, losses, claims, including claims and actions relating to injury to or death of any

   person or damage to property, demands, suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs,

   attorney fees, and all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or resulting from the

   Transmission Provider’s, ITC’s, ITC Participant’s, Interconnection Customer, Interconnecting

   Transmission Owner or Transmission Owner’s performance of its obligations under this Tariff

   on behalf of the

   Transmission Customer, Coordination Customer, and Market Participant, except in cases of

   negligence or intentional wrongdoing by the Transmission Provider, ITC, ITC Participant,

   Interconnection Customer, Interconnecting Transmission Owner or a Transmission Owner. If

   the Transmission Provider or ITC engages in negligence or intentional wrongdoing, but the

   Transmission Owner(s) or ITC Participant(s) does (do) not, that will not affect the

   indemnification of the Transmission Owner(s) under this Module A, Section 10.2 and vice-versa.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                10.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Limitation of Liability Regarding Transmission Owner
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   (a)    The Transmission Owner shall not be liable, whether based on contract, indemnification,

   warranty, equity, tort, strict liability or otherwise, to any Transmission Customer, Coordination

   Customer, Market Participant, User, Interconnection Customer, Interconnecting Transmission

   Owner or any third party or other person for any damages whatsoever, including, without

   limitation, direct, incidental, consequential (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and

   litigation costs), punitive, special, multiple, exemplary or indirect damages arising or resulting

   from any act or omission in any way associated with service provided under this Tariff,

   including, but not limited to, any act or omission that results in an interruption, deficiency or

   imperfection of service, except to the extent that the Transmission Owner is found liable for

   gross negligence or intentional misconduct, in which case the Transmission Owner will only be

   liable for direct damages. Nothing in this section, however, is intended to affect obligations

   otherwise provided in agreements between the Transmission Provider and Transmission Owner.

   (b)    The Transmission Provider shall not be liable, whether based on contract,

   indemnification, warranty, equity, tort, strict liability or otherwise, to any Transmission

   Customer, Coordination Customer, Market Participant, User, Interconnection Customer,

   Interconnecting Transmission Owner or any third party or other person for any damages

   whatsoever, including, without limitation, direct, incidental, consequential (including, without

   limitation, attorneys’ fees and litigation costs), punitive, special, multiple, exemplary or indirect

   damages arising or resulting from any act or omission in any way associated with service

   provided under this Tariff, including, but not limited to, any act or omission that results in an

   interruption, deficiency or imperfection of service, except to the extent that the Transmission

   Provider is found liable for gross negligence or intentional misconduct, in which case the




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               10.3
FERC Electric Tariff                              Limitation of Liability Regarding Transmission Owner
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Transmission Provider will only be liable for direct damages. Nothing in this section, however,

   is intended to affect obligations otherwise provided in agreements between the Transmission

   Provider and Transmission Owner.

   (c)    Neither the Transmission Owner nor the Transmission Provider shall be liable for

   damages arising out of services provided under this Tariff, including, but not limited to, any act

   or omission that results in an interruption, deficiency or imperfection of service, occurring as a

   result of conditions or circumstances beyond the control of the Transmission Owner or

   Transmission Provider, as applicable, or resulting from electric system design common to the

   domestic electric utility industry or electric system operation practices or conditions common to

   the domestic electric utility industry. Transmission Owner shall not be liable for acts or

   omissions done in compliance or good faith attempts to comply with directives of Transmission

   Provider.

   (d)    The provisions of this Section 10.3 shall not affect responsibilities among parties

   otherwise provided for in agreements executed prior to October 30, 2004.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                            10.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              10.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Inclusion of Independent Transmission Companies:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


    For purposes of, Module A Section 10.3 above, independent transmission companies under

   Appendix I of the ISO Agreement shall be included in the definition of “Transmission Owner” as

   used therein and such limitations of liability and damages shall be applicable to those entities.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                           10.6
FERC Electric Tariff   Limitations of Liability Regarding Local Balancing Authority
MODULES                                                                      30.0.0




                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  10.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Limitation of Liability:
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   a.     For the purposes of this Section 10.6, the term “Representatives” shall mean, with respect

   to any entity, such entity’s officers, shareholders, directors, agents, contractors, employees, and

   members (i.e., cooperative members and municipal joint action agency members).

   b.     Balancing Authorities that are not signatories to the Balancing Authority Agreement are

   not eligible for the waiver of liability described in this Section

   c.     The Local Balancing Authority, its Representatives, and the Transmission Provider shall

   not be liable, whether based on contract, indemnification, warranty, equity, tort, strict liability or

   otherwise, to any Transmission Customer or Market Participant or any of their Representatives

   including, without limitation, direct, incidental, consequential (including, without limitation,

   attorneys’ fees and litigation costs), punitive, special, multiple, exemplary or indirect damages

   arising or resulting from any act or omission in any way associated with this Tariff including, but

   not limited to, any act or omission that results in an interruption, deficiency or imperfection of

   service, except to the extent that the Local Balancing Authority or its Representatives or the

   Transmission Provider is found liable for gross negligence or intentional misconduct, in which

   case the Local Balancing Authority or its Representatives or the Transmission Provider shall

   only be liable for direct damages.

   Nothing in this section, however, is intended to affect obligations otherwise provided in

   agreements between the Transmission Provider and Local Balancing Authority.

   d.     The Local Balancing Authority and its Representatives and the Transmission Provider

   shall not be liable for damages arising out of actions under this Tariff, including, but not limited

   to, any act or omission that results in an interruption, deficiency or imperfection of service,

   occurring as a result of conditions or circumstances beyond the control of the Local Balancing




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                10.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Limitation of Liability:
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Authority or its Representatives or the Transmission Provider, as applicable, or resulting from

   electric system design common to the domestic electric utility industry or electric system

   operation practices or conditions common to the domestic electric utility industry.

   e.     The Local Balancing Authority and its Representatives shall not be liable for acts or

   omissions done in compliance or good faith attempts to comply with directives of the

   Transmission Provider.

   f.     The limitations of liability and damages set forth in this Section shall also apply to

   entities that take responsive action to implement or comply with the directives or needs of the

   Transmission Provider or Local Balancing Authority relating to the performance of the

   Balancing Authority Agreement.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                10.7
FERC Electric Tariff                              Limitations of Liability Regarding Market Participants
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The provisions on limitation of liability and damages, and on indemnification, set forth in

   Sections 10.2, 10.3 and 10.6 shall be applicable to Market Participants and Generation Owners

   acting in good faith to implement or comply with the directives of the Transmission Provider.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                11
FERC Electric Tariff                  Creditworthiness
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   11.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Credit Review Procedures:
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   For the purpose of determining the ability of the Transmission Customer, the Market Participant

   and the Coordination Customer to meet their respective obligations related to service under this

   Tariff, the Transmission Provider may require reasonable credit review procedures. The official

   credit policy for this Tariff is found in Attachment L. This review shall be made in accordance

   with standard commercial practices. In addition, the Transmission Provider may require each

   Transmission Customer, Market Participant, and Coordination Customer to provide and maintain

   in effect during the term of the Service Agreement or Market Participant Agreement, credit

   support, including but not limited to the Transmission Provider credit agreement, unconditional

   corporate guaranty (if applicable), letter of credit, or cash deposit as security to meet its

   responsibilities and obligations under the Tariff, or an alternative form of security agreeable to

   the Transmission Customer, Market Participant or Coordination Customer and the Transmission

   Provider and consistent with commercial practices established by the Uniform Commercial Code

   that protects the Transmission Provider and ITC(s) against the risk of non-payment. The

   Transmission Provider shall develop creditworthiness standards and publish them on the OASIS

   and on the Transmission Provider’s Internet webpage.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  12
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Dispute Resolution Procedures
MODULES                                                                                           37.0.0


   Any dispute between a Tariff Customer or User and the Transmission Provider and/or an ITC,

   except those expressly set out in this section, shall be resolved in accordance with the provisions

   of Attachment HH (Dispute Resolution Procedures) of this Tariff. Those disputes that are not

   subject to Attachment HH of this Tariff are, as follows:

          a.      Applications for rate changes or other changes to the Tariff or any Service

                  Agreement or to any Market Participant Agreement entered into under this Tariff

                  shall be presented directly to the Commission for resolution;

          b.      Billing disputes on Transmission Service, or other service under the Tariff,

                  brought within the one hundred twenty (120) Calendar Day period specified in

                  section 12A, which are governed initially by the Transmission Service Billing

                  Dispute Resolution Manual and then, if necessary, by Attachment HH of this

                  Tariff;

          c.      Disputes related to Market Activities brought within the one hundred twenty

                  (120) Calendar Day period specified in section 12A, which are governed initially

                  by the Business Practices Manual for Market Settlements and then, if necessary,

                  by Attachment HH of this Tariff;

          d.      Disputes under this Tariff, brought within fifteen (15) Calendar Days of any

                  resettlement of an Operating Day for any changes from the previous Settlement

                  Statement, which are governed initially by the Business Practices Manual for

                  Market Settlements and then, if necessary, by Attachment HH of this Tariff. Such

                  disputes on any resettlement of an Operating Day shall be limited to incremental

                  changes between the previous settlement statement and the resettlement




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                12
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Dispute Resolution Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         37.0.0


                  statement.

   The Business Practices Manuals referenced herein are available for inspection by the Tariff

   Customers, regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the Transmission Provider, ITC, Tariff

   Customers, and the public and are posted on the Transmission Provider’s website.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                               12A
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Limitation on Claims and Adjustments
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


   a.     No claim or dispute seeking an adjustment in the billing, invoice or settlement statement

          for any Transmission Service, or other service, under the Tariff may be asserted with

          respect to the billing, invoice or settlement statement if more than one hundred twenty

          (120) Calendar Days have elapsed since the date on which the official invoice was issued

          for the Transmission Service, or regarding other service, under the Tariff.

   b.     No claim or dispute seeking an adjustment in the settlement statement for any Market

          Activities may be asserted with respect to the settlement statement if more than one

          hundred twenty (120) Calendar Days have elapsed since the Operating Day of the

          relevant Market Activities.

   c.     The Transmission Provider may not adjust any billing, invoice or settlement statement

          with respect to any Transmission Service or other service under the Tariff if more than

          one (1) year has elapsed since the date on which the official invoice for the Transmission

          Service was first issued after the effective date of section 12A, provided that an

          adjustment may be performed after such one-year period based on a final determination

          in a timely settlement dispute, including any ensuing informal or formal dispute

          resolution and/or any Commission or court; provided, further, that the Transmission

          Provider shall make the appropriate adjustments in cases involving a Continuing Error of

          the Transmission Provider in accordance with section 12A(e).

   d.     The Transmission Provider may not adjust any settlement statement with respect to any

          Market Activities, if more than one (1) year has elapsed since the Operating Day that

          service occurred after the effective date of section 12A, provided that an adjustment may

          be performed after such one-year period based on a final determination in a timely




                                                                       Effective On: December 16, 2024
MISO                                                                                                12A
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Limitation on Claims and Adjustments
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


          settlement dispute, including any ensuing informal or formal dispute resolution and/or

          any Commission or court; provided, further, that the Transmission Provider shall make

          the appropriate adjustments in cases involving a Continuing Error of the Transmission

          Provider in accordance with section 12A(e).

   e.     In the absence of a timely claim or dispute under section 12A, a billing, invoice or

          settlement statement, and the associated data, shall be deemed final, and shall not be

          subject to further correction. If a timely claim or dispute under section 12A, or under

          Attachment HH, results in the discovery of a Continuing Error of the Transmission

          Provider that goes back earlier than the issuance of the billing, invoice or settlement that

          was the basis for a timely transmission settlement dispute under section 12A(a), or than

          the Operating Day that was the basis of a timely market settlement dispute under section

          12A(b), the Transmission Provider shall post a notification on its website describing the

          existence of the Continuing Error and make the appropriate adjustments up to the

          applicable one year period set forth in section 12A. Notwithstanding the above, if the

          Transmission Provider discovers and verifies a Continuing Error, even if there is no

          timely market settlement or transmission settlement dispute, the Transmission Provider

          shall post a notification on its website describing the existence of the Continuing Error

          and make the appropriate adjustments up to one year going backward from the date of

          that notification. Such one year resettlement period shall not be shortened by the time it

          takes for a timely settlement dispute to be finally determined, including any ensuing

          informal or formal dispute resolution, Commission or court proceedings.




                                                                        Effective On: December 16, 2024
MISO                                                                                                12A
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Limitation on Claims and Adjustments
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


   f.     If a timely claim or dispute under section 12A involving a service, Market Activities,

          charge or credit that occurred before the effective date of section 12A, results in the

          discovery of a Continuing Error of the Transmission Provider that goes back earlier than

          the issuance of the billing, invoice or settlement that was the basis for a timely

          transmission settlement dispute under section 12A(a), or than the Operating Day that was

          the basis of a timely market settlement dispute under section 12A(b), the Transmission

          Provider may make the appropriate adjustments up to one (1) year before the effective

          date of section 12A of the Tariff.

   g.     Whether or not a timely transmission or market settlement dispute has been submitted

          under section 12A(a) or section 12A(b), respectively, even if the Transmission Provider

          discovers a Continuing Error occurring within one (1) year from the date the

          Transmission Provider posts a notification on its website describing the existence of the

          Continuing Error, no corrective resettlement shall be performed where the total financial

          impact of a Continuing Error involving Market Activities does not exceed 0.5% of daily

          gross Market Activities per day. The financial impact(s) of the Continuing Error shall be

          determined during a period of twelve (12) consecutive Months going backward from the

          date of the notification describing the existence of the Continuing Error.




                                                                        Effective On: December 16, 2024
MISO                                                 12B
FERC Electric Tariff   Participation by the United States
MODULES                                            30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  12B.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Subject to Acts of Congress
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


           The participation by the United States through the Western Area Power Administration,

   or other Federal entity, in this Tariff is subject in all respects to acts of Congress and to

   regulations of the Secretary of Energy established thereunder, and to rate schedules promulgated

   by the Secretary of Energy. This reservation includes, but is not limited to, the statutory

   limitations upon the authority of the Secretary of Energy to submit disputes arising under this

   Tariff to arbitration. In the event of a conflict between these federal participation provisions and

   any other provision of this Tariff, these federal participation provisions shall have precedence

   with respect to the application of this Tariff to the United States.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              12B.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Contingent Upon Appropriations
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Where activities provided for in this Tariff extend beyond the current fiscal year, continued

   expenditures by the United States are contingent upon Congress making the necessary

   appropriations required for the continued performance of the obligations of the United States

   under this Tariff. In case such appropriation is not made, the Parties/Customers hereby release

   the United States from its contractual obligations under this Tariff and from all liability due to

   the failure of Congress to make such appropriation.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              12B.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Contractor Agreement
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   For the purpose of this federal participation provision, the term “Contract” shall mean this Tariff

   and the term “Contractor” shall mean a Party/Customer having transactions with the Western

   Area Power Administration, or other Federal entity. During the performance of this Contract,

   the Contractor agrees to the provisions set forth in Section 12C. In addition, the Contractor will

   include the provisions set forth in Section 12C in every subcontract or purchase order involving

   the Western Area Power Administration or other Federal entity, unless exempted by rules,

   regulations or order of the Secretary of Labor.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                             12C
FERC Electric Tariff             Employment Practices
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             12C.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Equal Opportunity Employment Practices
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Section 202 of Executive Order No. 11246, 30 Fed. Reg. 12319 (1965), as amended by

   Executive Order No. 12086, 43 Fed. Reg. 46501 (1978), which provides, among other things,

   that the Contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment

   because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, is incorporated by reference in the

   Contract by reference to same as if the specific language had been written into the Contract,

   except that Indian Tribes and tribal organizations may apply Indian Preference to the extent

   permitted by Federal law.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             12C.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Contract, to the extent that it is of a character specified in Section 103 of the Contract Work

   Hours and Safety Standards Act (“Act”), 40 U.S.C. §3701, as amended or supplemented, is

   subject to the provisions of the Act, 40 U.S.C. §3701-3708, as amended or supplemented, and to

   regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Act.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          12C.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Use of Convict Labor
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


          The Contractor agrees not to employ any person undergoing sentence of imprisonment in

   performing the Contract except as provided by 18 U.S.C. §3622(c), as amended or

   supplemented, and Executive Order No.11755, 39 Fed. Reg. 779 (1973), as amended or

   supplemented.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                               12D
FERC Electric Tariff     ITC Public Power Participation
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             12D.1
FERC Electric Tariff                               State Laws, Regulations, Public Power Rate Schedules
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


          The participation in this Tariff by an ITC Participant that is not a public utility under the

   Federal Power Act, but rather is a public power entity, is subject in all respects to the laws and

   regulations of the state of its creation and to rate schedules adopted by its governing board under

   state law. The Commission has exclusive jurisdiction to interpret the provisions of this Tariff

   and how the provisions apply to such public power entity(ies). In the event of a conflict between

   such state law, regulations or rate schedules with any provisions of this Tariff, such state law,

   regulations or rate schedules shall govern with respect to the application of this Tariff to said ITC

   Participant.

          However, in the event that the governing board of such public-power entity(ies), subject

   to state court review, determines that a conflict exists between the applicable state law,

   regulations or rate schedules and provisions of this Tariff as interpreted by the Commission, such

   state law, regulations or rate schedules shall govern with respect to the application of this Tariff

   to such public-power entity(ies).

          Should the governing board of such public-power entity(ies) determine that such a

   conflict exists, the public-power entity(ies) must file with the Commission, such necessary

   documents notifying the Commission of the governing board determination of such a conflict

   and explaining both the conflict (including what state law, regulations or rate schedules and what

   Tariff provisions are at issue) and what actions the governing board is taking in response to that

   determination.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              12.E
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Public Power Participation Under Module F
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


          The participation under Module F of this Tariff by a Coordination Customer that is not a

   public utility under the Federal Power Act, but rather is a public-power entity, is subject in all

   respects to the laws and regulations of the state of its creation and to rate schedules adopted by

   its governing board under state law. The Commission has exclusive jurisdiction to interpret the

   provisions of Module F and how the provisions apply to such public-power entity.

          However, in the event that the governing board of such public-power entity, subject to

   state court review, determines that a conflict exists between the applicable state law, regulations,

   or rate schedules, and the provisions of Module F as interpreted by the Commission, such state

   law, regulations, or rate schedules shall govern with respect to the application of Module F to

   such public-power entity. Should the governing board of such public-power entity determine

   that such a conflict exists, the public-power entity must file with the Commission, necessary

   documents notifying the Commission of the governing board’s determination of such a conflict

   and explaining both the conflict (including what state laws, regulations or rate schedules, and

   what Module F provisions, are at issue) and what actions the governing board is taking in

   response to that determination.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                  MODULE B
FERC Electric Tariff       TRANSMISSION SERVICE
MODULES                                    30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 INTRODUCTION
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall provide Point-To-Point and Network Integration

   Transmission Service pursuant to the applicable terms and conditions of this Tariff. Point-To-

   Point Transmission Service is for the receipt of Capacity and Energy at designated Point(s) of

   Receipt and the transmission of such Capacity and Energy to designated Point(s) of Delivery.

   Network Integration Transmission Service allows the Network Customer to integrate,

   economically dispatch and regulate its current and planned Network Resources to serve its

   Network Load in a manner comparable to that in which Transmission Owners utilize the

   Transmission System to serve their Native Load or other Network Customers.

          Any Eligible Customer requesting Transmission Service under this Module B (other than

   an Eligible Customer requesting HVDC Service) may be eligible to request and receive FTRs

   associated with such request pursuant to the provisions of Module C of this Tariff. Any Eligible

   Customer seeking to request or receive FTRs must be a Market Participant.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     II
FERC Electric Tariff                                  POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION SERVICE
MODULES                                                                              31.0.0


   Preamble

       The Transmission Provider will provide Firm and Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

   Service pursuant to the applicable terms and conditions of this Tariff. An ITC may provide Firm

   and Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service pursuant to the ITC Rate Schedule under

   this Tariff where both the Point of Receipt and the Point of Delivery are on the ITC System,

   provided that the Transmission Customer has executed an appropriate Service Agreement with

   the Transmission Provider. Point-To-Point Transmission Service is for the receipt of Energy at

   designated Point(s) of Receipt and the transmission of such Energy to designated Point(s) of

   Delivery. Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers are not required to obtain

   Transmission Service for the receipt of Energy and transmission of such Energy associated with

   Electric Storage Resources when withdrawing Energy while providing Regulating Service or

   Down Ramp Capability. Point-To-Point Transmission Service customers with Point(s) of

   Receipt and Point(s) of Delivery located within the Transmission System (Michigan) may obtain

   Point-To-Point Transmission Service under Schedule 7 – Michigan and Schedule 8 - Michigan

   of this Tariff.




                                                                             Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                   13
FERC Electric Tariff   Nature of Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                            30.0.0




                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               13.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                              Term
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        The minimum term of Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be

                 one (1) day and the maximum term shall be specified in the Service Agreement.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  13.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Reservation Priority
MODULES                                                                                              6.0.0


                        (i)Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be

                 available on a first-come, first-served basis, i.e., in the chronological sequence in

                 which each Transmission Customer has reserved service.

                        (ii)Reservations for Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                 will be conditional based upon the length of the requested transaction or

                 reservation. However, Pre-Confirmed Applications for Short-Term Point-To-

                 Point Transmission Service will receive priority over earlier-submitted requests

                 that are not Pre-Confirmed and that have equal or shorter duration. Among

                 requests or reservations with the same duration and, as relevant, pre-confirmation

                 status (pre-confirmed, confirmed, or not confirmed), priority will be given to an

                 Eligible Customer’s request or reservation based on the earliest date and time of

                 the request or reservation.

                        (iii)If the Transmission System becomes oversubscribed, requests for

                 service may preempt competing requests or reservations that involve the same

                 flowgate or up to the following conditional reservation deadlines: one day before

                 the commencement of daily service; one week before the commencement of

                 weekly service; and one month before the commencement of monthly service.

                 Before the conditional reservation deadline, if Available Transfer Capability is

                 insufficient to satisfy all requests and reservations, an Eligible Customer with a

                 reservation for shorter-term service or equal duration service has the right of first

                 refusal to match any longer-term request or equal duration service before losing

                 its reservation priority. A longer-term competing request for Short-Term Firm




                                                                          Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                                     13.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Reservation Priority
MODULES                                                                                                 6.0.0


                 Point-To-Point Transmission Service will be granted if the Eligible Customer with

                 the right of first refusal does not agree to match the competing request within

                 twenty-four (24) hours (or earlier if necessary to comply with the scheduling

                 deadlines provided in Section 13.8) from being notified by the Transmission

                 Provider of a longer-term competing request for Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service. When a longer duration request preempts multiple shorter

                 duration reservations, the shorter duration reservations shall have simultaneous

                 opportunities to exercise the right of first refusal. Time of match confirmation

                 will be used to determine the order by which the multiple shorter duration

                 reservations will be able to exercise the right of first refusal. In the event the

                 match confirmations are submitted simultaneously, the original OASIS queue time

                 will be utilized to determine the order by which the multiple shorter duration

                 reservations will be able to exercise the right of first refusal. After the conditional

                 reservation deadline, service will commence pursuant to the terms of this Tariff.

                 (iv)Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service will always have a reservation

                 priority over Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service under the Tariff. All

                 Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service will have equal reservation

                 priority with Native Load Customers and Network Customers. Reservation

                 priorities for existing firm service customers are provided in Section 2.2.




                                                                             Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                            13.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                13.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Service Agreements
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Firm

                 Point-To-Point Transmission Service Agreement to an Eligible Customer when it

                 submits a Completed Application for Long-Term Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service pursuant to this Tariff (Attachment A-1). The Transmission

                 Provider shall offer a standard form Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                 Agreement to an Eligible Customer when it first submits a Completed Application

                 for Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service pursuant to this Tariff

                 (Attachment A). Executed Service Agreements that contain the information

                 required under the Tariff shall be filed with the Commission in compliance with

                 applicable Commission regulations. An Eligible Customer that uses Transmission

                 Service at a Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery that it has not reserved and that

                 has not executed a Service Agreement will be deemed, for purposes of assessing

                 any appropriate charges and penalties, to have executed the appropriate Service

                 Agreement.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               13.5
FERC Electric Tariff                             Obligations for Facility Additions or Redispatch Costs
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


                        In cases where the Transmission Provider or ITC determines that the

                 Transmission System is not capable of providing Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service without: (1) degrading or impairing the reliability of service

                 to Native Load Customers, Network Customers and other Transmission

                 Customers taking Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service; or (2) interfering

                 with the Transmission Provider’s or ITC’s ability to meet prior firm contractual

                 commitments to others, the relevant Transmission Owner(s) or ITC will be

                 obligated to expand or upgrade its (their) Transmission System(s) pursuant to the

                 terms of Section 15.4. The Transmission Customer must agree to pay the

                 Transmission Provider or ITC for any necessary transmission facility additions

                 pursuant to the terms of Section 27.




                                                                          Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                             13.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Curtailment of Firm Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                        In the event that a Curtailment on the Transmission System, or a portion

                 thereof, is required to maintain reliable operation of such system, and the systems

                 directly and indirectly interconnected with the Transmission System, Curtailments

                 will be made on a non-discriminatory basis to the transaction(s) that effectively

                 relieve the constraint. The Transmission Provider may elect to implement such

                 Curtailments pursuant to the Transmission Loading Relief Procedures specified in

                 NERC Reliability Standards and NAESB WEQ Business Practice Standards. If

                 multiple transactions require Curtailment, to the extent practicable and consistent

                 with Good Utility Practice, the Transmission Provider will curtail service to

                 Network Customers and Transmission Customers taking Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service on a non-discriminatory basis. If any Transmission Owners

                 have Native Load Customers, then the Transmission Provider will curtail service

                 on a comparable basis to Native Load Customers.

                 All Curtailments will be made on a non-discriminatory basis; however, Non-Firm

                 Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be subordinate to Firm Transmission

                 Service. When the Transmission Provider determines that an electrical

                 Emergency exists on its Transmission System and implements Emergency

                 procedures to curtail Firm Transmission Service, the Transmission Customer shall

                 make the required reductions upon request of the Transmission Provider.

                 However, the Transmission Provider reserves the right to curtail, in whole or in

                 part, any Firm Transmission Service provided under the Tariff when, in the

                 Transmission Provider’s sole discretion, an Emergency or other unforeseen




                                                                          Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                              13.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Curtailment of Firm Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                 condition impairs or degrades the reliability of its Transmission System. The

                 Transmission Provider will notify all affected Transmission Customers in a timely

                 manner of any scheduled Curtailments. In the event that the Transmission

                 Customer fails to cease or reduce service in response to a directive by the

                 Transmission Provider, the Transmission Customer shall pay the following

                 penalties in addition to any other applicable changes: $10 per kW if the customer

                 fails to curtail service within ten (10) minutes of a directive by the Transmission

                 Provider; or $20 per kW if the customer fails to curtail service within twenty (20)

                 minutes of a directive by the Transmission Provider.

                        These charges shall apply only to the portion of the service that the

                 Transmission Customer fails to curtail in response to a Transmission Provider or

                 ITC directive. The Transmission Provider or ITC, where applicable, shall

                 compensate any affected Local Balancing Authority Areas or Generation

                 Resources for their actual costs up to the amount recovered by the Transmission

                 Provider or ITC, as applicable. Any revenues in excess of actual costs shall be

                 used to reduce the Transmission Provider’s costs (for other than the penalized

                 Transmission Customer) in Schedule 10 or, in the case of ITC Service, any

                 revenues in excess of actual costs shall be applied as specified in the ITC Rate

                 Schedule.




                                                                           Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                               13.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Classification of Firm Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


          a.     The Transmission Customer taking Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                 may (1) change its Receipt and Delivery Points to obtain service on a non-firm

                 basis consistent with the terms of Section 22.1 or (2) request a modification of the

                 Points of Receipt or Delivery on a firm basis pursuant to the terms of

                 Section 22.3.

          b.     The Transmission Customer may purchase Transmission Service to make sales of

                 Capacity and Energy from multiple Generation Resources that are interconnected

                 to the Transmission System. For such a purchase of Transmission Service, the

                 Generation Resource will be designated as multiple Points of Receipt, except that

                 multiple Generation Resources interconnected to the Transmission System and

                 Interface points designated as Points of Receipt shall be treated as a single Point

                 of Receipt.

          c.     The Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, shall provide firm deliveries of

                 Capacity and Energy from the Point(s) of Receipt to the Point(s) of Delivery.

                 Each Point of Receipt at which firm transmission capacity is reserved by the

                 Transmission Customer shall be set forth in the Firm Point-To-Point Service

                 Agreement for Long-Term Firm Transmission Service along with a corresponding

                 capacity reservation associated with each Point of Receipt. Points of Receipt and

                 corresponding capacity reservations shall be as mutually agreed upon by the

                 Parties for Short-Term Firm Transmission. Each Point of Delivery at which firm

                 transfer capability is reserved by the Transmission Customer shall be set forth in

                 the Firm Point-To-Point Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm Transmission




                                                                              Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                                13.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Classification of Firm Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


                 Service along with a corresponding capacity reservation associated with each

                 Point of Delivery.

          d.     Points of Delivery and corresponding capacity reservations shall be as mutually

                 agreed upon by the Parties for Short-Term Firm Transmission. The greater of

                 either (1) the sum of the capacity reservations at the Point(s) of Receipt, or (2) the

                 sum of the capacity reservations at the Point(s) of Delivery shall be the

                 Transmission Customer’s Reserved Capacity. The Transmission Customer will

                 be billed for its Reserved Capacity under the terms of the applicable Schedule 7.

                 The Transmission Customer may not exceed its firm capacity reserved at each

                 Point of Receipt and each Point of Delivery except as otherwise specified in

                 Section 22. In the event that MISO identifies that a Transmission Customer’s

                 delivered energy exceeds its firm reserved capacity at any Point of Receipt or

                 Point of Delivery, the Transmission Customer shall pay unreserved use penalties

                 as follows: (1) the unreserved use penalties shall be based on the period of

                 unreserved use; (2) the unreserved use penalty for a single hour of unreserved use

                 shall be the applicable rate for daily firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service, as

                 set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff; and (3) more than one assessment for a given

                 duration (e.g., daily) shall result in an increase of the penalty period to the next

                 longest duration (e.g., weekly).

          e.     Unreserved use penalties assessed using daily firm Point-to-Point Transmission

                 Service rates shall account for off-peak and on-peak usage, as set forth in




                                                                                Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                              13.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Classification of Firm Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                 Schedule 7 of the Tariff. A 200% multiplier shall be applied to all assessed

                 penalties.

                 i.     Unreserved use penalties will be calculated on a monthly basis, and

                        allocated to all Tariff Customers and/or Transmission Owners that were

                        not assessed any unreserved use penalties during the applicable month.

                        Unreserved use penalties will be allocated to all such non-penalized Tariff

                        Customers and/or Transmission Owners on a pro rata basis using their

                        total Network Load for the month and their total Reserved Capacity for

                        Point-to-Point Transmission Service for the month. Specifically, the

                        Transmission Provider will allocate unreserved use revenues as follows:




                        Each Customer’s “Unreserved Use Determinant” is determined by adding

                        the total Network Load for the month for each Tariff Customer or

                        Transmission Owner not charged with unreserved use during that month to

                        that Tariff Customer’s or Transmission Owner’s total Reserved Capacity

                        for Point-to-Point Transmission Service for the month.

                        The “Aggregate Unreserved Use Determinant” is determined by adding

                        the total Network Load for the month of all Tariff Customers and

                        Transmission Owners not charged with unreserved use during that month

                        and the total Reserved Capacity for Point-to-Point Transmission Service




                                                                            Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                               13.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Classification of Firm Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


                        for the month for all Tariff Customers and Transmission Owners not

                        charged with unreserved use during the month.

                        MISO will divide each Customer’s Unreserved Use Determinant by the

                        Aggregate Unreserved Use Determinant, and will multiply that quotient by

                        the aggregate unreserved use revenues for the month in order to determine

                        the share of such unreserved use revenues to be allocated to each such

                        Tariff Customer or Transmission Owner not charged with unreserved use

                        for the month.

          f.     For interchange transactions, evaluation of Interchange Schedules (including

                 Third-Party Sales by a Transmission Owner) against firm reserved capacity will

                 be utilized to identify instances of unreserved use. For transactions internal to the

                 MISO footprint, MISO shall implement monitoring as described in detail in

                 Business Practice Manual 013, Module B, Transmission Service, to identify

                 instances of unreserved use.




                                                                              Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                             13.8
FERC Electric Tariff                           Scheduling of Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   Interchange Schedules for the Transmission Customer’s Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

   Service must be submitted in accordance with the terms in Attachment J. Interchange Schedules

   submitted after the applicable time specified in Attachment J will be accommodated, if

   practicable. Transmission Customers shall submit all hour-to-hour and intra-hour (four intervals

   consisting of fifteen minutes) Interchange Schedules electronically in a form specified by the

   Transmission Provider. Hour-to-hour Interchange Schedules of any capacity and energy that is

   to be delivered must be stated in increments of 1,000 kW per hour. Transmission Customers

   within a Transmission Owner’s service area (or Local Balancing Authority Area) with multiple

   requests for Transmission Service at a Point of Receipt, each of which is under 1,000 kW per

   hour, may consolidate their service requests at a common Point of Receipt into units of 1,000 kW

   per hour for scheduling and billing purposes. Scheduling changes will be permitted in

   accordance with Attachment J. However, in the event of a system contingency such as a

   generation or an unplanned Transmission Outage, or Curtailment or Interruption of Transmission

   Service, scheduling changes will be implemented as soon as practicable.

          The Transmission Provider, or if ITC Service is taken, the ITC, will furnish to the

   Delivering Party’s system operator, hour-to-hour Interchange Schedules and intra-hour

   Interchange Schedules equal to those furnished by the Receiving Party (unless reduced for

   losses) and shall deliver the Capacity and Energy provided by such schedules. Should the

   Transmission Customer, Delivering Party or Receiving Party revise or terminate any Interchange

   Schedule, such party shall immediately notify the Transmission Provider or, if appropriate, the

   ITC, and the Transmission Provider shall have the right to adjust accordingly the schedule for

   Capacity and Energy to be received and to be delivered.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                     13.8
FERC Electric Tariff   Scheduling of Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                       14
FERC Electric Tariff   Nature of Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 14.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                Term
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                        Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service will be available for

                 periods ranging from one (1) hour to one (1) month. However, a Purchaser of

                 Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service will be entitled to reserve a

                 sequential term of service (such as a sequential monthly term without having to

                 wait for the initial term to expire before requesting another monthly term) so that

                 the total time period for which the reservation applies is greater than one month,

                 subject to the requirements of Attachment J.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   14.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Reservation Priority
MODULES                                                                                               6.0.0


                        Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be available from

                 transfer capability in excess of that needed for reliable service to Native Load

                 Customers, Network Customers and other Transmission Customers taking Long-

                 Term and Short-Term Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. A higher

                 priority will be assigned first to requests or reservations with a longer duration of

                 service and second to Pre-Confirmed Applications. Eligible Customers that have

                 already reserved shorter-term service have the right of first refusal to match any

                 longer-term request before being preempted. A longer-term competing request

                 for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service will be granted if the Eligible

                 Customer with the right of first refusal does not agree to match the competing

                 request: (i) immediately for hourly Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

                        Service after notification by the Transmission Provider; and, (ii) within

                 twenty-four (24) hours (or earlier if necessary to comply with the scheduling

                 deadlines provided in Attachment J) for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

                 Service other than hourly transactions after notification by the Transmission

                 Provider. When a longer duration request preempts multiple shorter duration

                 reservations, the shorter duration reservations shall have simultaneous

                 opportunities to exercise the right of first refusal. Time of match confirmation

                 will be used to determine the order by which the multiple shorter duration

                 reservations will be able to exercise the right of first refusal. In the event the

                 match confirmations are submitted simultaneously, the original OASIS queue

                 time will be utilized to determine the order by which the multiple shorter duration




                                                                           Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                                 14.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Reservation Priority
MODULES                                                                                             6.0.0


                 reservations will be able to exercise the right of first refusal. Transmission Service

                 for Network Customers from Generation Resources other than designated

                 Network Resources will have a higher priority than any Non-Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service. Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service over

                 secondary Point(s) of Receipt and Point(s) of Delivery will have the second

                 lowest reservation priority under this Tariff, and Non-Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service used for Next-Hour-Transmission Service will have the

                 lowest reservation priority under this Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                            14.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              14.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Service Agreements
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

   Service Agreement (Attachment B to this Tariff) to an Eligible Customer when it first submits a

   Completed Application for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service pursuant to this

   Tariff. Executed Service Agreements that contain the information required under this Tariff

   shall be filed with the Commission in compliance with applicable Commission regulations.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               14.5
FERC Electric Tariff                             Classification of Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


          Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be offered under terms and

   conditions contained in Module B of this Tariff and any applicable ITC Rate Schedule for ITC

   Service offered within an ITC System. The Transmission Provider, Transmission Owners, ITC,

   and ITC Participants undertake no obligation under this Tariff to plan the Transmission System

   in order to have sufficient capacity for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. Parties

   requesting Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service for the transmission of firm power do

   so with the full realization that such service is subject to availability and to Curtailment or

   Interruption under the terms of this Tariff. In the event that MISO identifies that a Transmission

   Customer’s delivered energy exceeds its non-firm reserved capacity at any Point of Receipt or

   Point of Delivery , the Transmission Customer shall pay unreserved use penalties as follows: (1)

   the unreserved use penalties shall be based on the period of unreserved use; (2) the unreserved

   use penalty for a single hour of unreserved use shall be the applicable rate for daily firm Point-

   to-Point Transmission Service, as set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff; and (3) more than one

   assessment for a given duration (e.g., daily) shall result in an increase of the penalty period to the

   next longest duration (e.g., weekly). Unreserved use penalties assessed using daily firm Point-

   to-Point Transmission Service rates shall account for off-peak and on-peak usage, as set forth in

   Schedule 7 of the Tariff. A 200% multiplier shall be applied to all assessed penalties.

          These penalty revenues shall be allocated in the manner set forth in Section 13.7 of the

   Tariff except, when ITC Service is taken, the penalty revenues shall be used as set forth in the

   applicable ITC Rate Schedule. Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall include

   transmission of Energy on an hourly basis and transmission of scheduled short-term capacity and




                                                                                 Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                             14.5
FERC Electric Tariff                           Classification of Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   Energy on a daily, weekly or monthly basis, but not to exceed one month’s reservation for any

   one Application, under the applicable Schedule 8 or the applicable ITC Rate Schedule.

          For interchange transactions, evaluation of Interchange Schedules (including Third-Party

   Sales by a Transmission Owner) against non-firm reserved capacity will be utilized to identify

   instances of unreserved use. For transactions internal to the MISO footprint, MISO shall

   implement monitoring as described in detail in Business Practice Manual 013, Module B,

   Transmission Service, to identify instances of unreserved use.




                                                                             Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                            14.6
FERC Electric Tariff                         Scheduling Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   Interchange Schedules for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service, other than for Next-

   Hour-Transmission Service, must be submitted to the Transmission Provider or, when

   appropriate, the ITC, in accordance with the terms in Attachment J. Interchange Schedules

   submitted after the time specified in Attachment J will be accommodated, if practicable.

   Transmission Customers shall submit all Interchange Schedules electronically in a form

   specified by the Transmission Provider or ITC, if applicable. Hour-to-hour and intra-hour (four

   intervals consisting of fifteen minutes) Interchange Schedules of Energy that are to be delivered

   must be stated in increments of 1,000 kW per hour. Transmission Customers within the

   Transmission Owner’s service (or control) area with multiple requests for Transmission Service

   at a Point of Receipt, each of which is under 1,000 kW per hour [MWh], may consolidate their

   Interchange Schedules at a common Point of Receipt into units of 1,000 kW per hour [MWh].

   Scheduling changes will be permitted in accordance with Attachment J. The Transmission

   Provider or, when appropriate the ITC, will furnish to the Delivering Party’s system operator,

   hour-to-hour and intra-hour Interchange Schedules equal to those furnished by the Receiving

   Party (unless reduced for losses) and shall deliver the Capacity and Energy provided by such

   schedules. Should the Transmission Customer, Delivering Party or Receiving Party revise or

   terminate any Interchange Schedule, such party shall immediately notify the Transmission

   Provider or, where appropriate the ITC, and the Transmission Provider or the ITC shall have the

   right to adjust accordingly the schedule for Capacity and Energy to be received and to be

   delivered. Schedules for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service for Next-Hour

   Transmission Service must be in accordance with Attachment J. Schedules submitted less than

   twenty (20) minutes prior to the start of the schedule will be accommodated, if practicable.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                      14.6
FERC Electric Tariff   Scheduling Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0




                                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  14.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Curtailment or Interruption of Service
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


          The Transmission Provider reserves the right to curtail, in whole or in part, Non-Firm

   Point-To-Point Transmission Service provided under this Tariff for reliability reasons when, an

   Emergency or other unforeseen condition threatens to impair or degrade the reliability of the

   Transmission System or the systems directly and indirectly interconnected with the Transmission

   System. The Transmission Provider may elect to implement such Curtailments pursuant to the

   Transmission Loading Relief Procedures specified in NERC Reliability Standards and NAESB

   WEQ Business Practice Standards. The Transmission Provider reserves the right to interrupt, in

   whole or in part, Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service provided under this Tariff for

   economic reasons in order to accommodate (i) a request for Firm Transmission Service; (ii) a

   request for Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service of greater duration; (iii) a request for

   Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service of equal duration with a higher price; or (iv)

   Transmission Service for Network Customers from non-designated Resources. Point-To-Point

   Transmission Service for Next-Hour-Transmission Service will always have the lowest priority.

   The Transmission Provider also will discontinue or reduce service to the Transmission Customer

   to the extent that deliveries for transmission are discontinued or reduced at the Point(s) of

   Receipt. Where required, Curtailments or Interruptions will be made on a non-discriminatory

   basis to the transaction(s) that effectively relieve the constraint; however, Non-Firm

   Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be subordinate to Firm Transmission Service. If

   multiple transactions require Curtailment or Interruption, to the extent practicable and consistent

   with Good Utility Practice, Curtailments or Interruptions will be made first to

   Next-Hour-Transmission Service and then to remaining transactions beginning with those

   transactions of the shortest term (e.g., hourly non-firm transactions will be curtailed or




                                                                             Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                                 14.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Curtailment or Interruption of Service
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   interrupted before daily non-firm transactions and daily non-firm transactions will be curtailed or

   interrupted before weekly non-firm transactions). Transmission Service for Network Customers

   from Resources other than designated Network Resources will have a higher priority than any

   Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service under this Tariff. Non-Firm Point-To-Point

   Transmission Service over secondary Point(s) of Receipt and Point(s) of Delivery will have a

   higher priority than Next-Hour Transmission Service, but will have a lower priority than any

   other Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service under the Tariff. The Transmission

   Provider will provide advance notice of Curtailment or Interruption where such notice can be

   provided consistent with Good Utility Practice. In the event that the Transmission Customer

   fails to cease or reduce service in response to a directive by the Transmission Provider, the

   Transmission Customer shall pay the following penalties in addition to any other applicable

   charges:

       a. $10 per kW if the Customer fails to curtail service within ten (10) minutes of a directive

          by the Transmission Provider;

       b. $20 per kW if the Customer fails to curtail service within twenty (20) minutes of a

          directive by the Transmission Provider; or

       c. $20 per kW if the customer fails to interrupt service at the beginning of the Hour for

          which the Interruption is requested; provided that the customer is given a minimum of

          forty (40) minutes notice before the beginning of such Hour; and provided further that the

          customer may retain its service and avoid the penalty by agreeing pursuant to

          Section 14.2 of this Tariff to match any longer-term reservation and/or higher price in a

          competing request before being Interrupted.




                                                                            Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                                 14.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Curtailment or Interruption of Service
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


          These charges shall apply only to the portion of the service that the Transmission

   Customer fails to curtail or interrupt in response to a Curtailment or Interruption directive. The

   Transmission Provider or ITC where applicable, shall compensate any affected Local Balancing

   Authority Areas or generators for their actual costs up to the amount recovered by the

   Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable. Any revenues in excess of actual costs shall be

   used to reduce the Transmission Provider costs (for other than the penalized Transmission

   Customer) in Schedule 10 or, in the case of ITC Service, any revenues in excess of actual costs

   shall be applied as specified in an ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                                            Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                15
FERC Electric Tariff               Service Availability
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            15.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              General Conditions
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider will provide Firm and Non-Firm Point-To-

                 Point Transmission Service over, on or across its Transmission System to any

                 Transmission Customer that has met the requirements of Section 16.1.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             15.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Determination of Available Transfer Capability
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        A description of the Transmission Provider’s specific methodology for

                 assessing available transfer capability posted on the Transmission Provider’s

                 OASIS (Section 4) is contained in Attachment C of the Tariff. In the event

                 sufficient transfer capability may not exist to accommodate a service request, the

                 Transmission Provider or as appropriate, the ITC, will respond by performing a

                 System Impact Study in accordance with Attachment D to this Tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               15.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Initiating Service in Absence of Executed Agreement
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   If the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Customer requesting Firm or Non-Firm

   Point-To-Point Transmission Service cannot agree on all the terms and conditions of the Point-

   To-Point Transmission Service Agreement, the Transmission Provider shall file with the

   Commission, within thirty (30) days after the date the Transmission Customer provides written

   notification directing the Transmission Provider to file, an unexecuted Point-To-Point Service

   Agreement containing terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Transmission Provider

   for such requested Transmission Service.

   The Transmission Provider shall commence providing Transmission Service subject to the

   Transmission Customer agreeing to: (i) compensate the Transmission Provider at whatever rate

   the Commission ultimately determines to be just and reasonable and (ii) comply with the terms

   and conditions of the Tariff including posting appropriate security deposits in accordance with

   the terms of Section 17.4.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             15.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                Obligation to Provide Service Requiring Expansion
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                        If the Transmission Provider determines that it cannot accommodate a

                 Completed Application for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service because of

                 insufficient capability on the Transmission System, the Transmission Provider

                 and the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC(s) will use due diligence to

                 expand or modify the Transmission System to provide the requested Firm

                 Transmission Service, consistent with its planning obligations in Attachment FF,

                 provided the Transmission Customer agrees to compensate the Transmission

                 Provider and ITC for such costs pursuant to the terms of Section 27. The

                 Transmission Provider and the affected Transmission Owner(s), ITC(s), and ITC

                 Participant(s), if applicable, will conform to Good Utility Practice and its

                 planning obligations in Attachment FF, in determining the need for new facilities

                 and in the design and construction of such facilities. The obligation applies only

                 to those facilities that the affected Transmission Owner(s), ITC(s), and ITC

                 Participant(s) have the right to expand or modify.




                                                                           Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                                 15.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Deferral of Service
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider may defer providing service until construction

                 is completed of new transmission facilities or upgrades needed to provide Firm

                 Point-To-Point Transmission Service whenever the Transmission Provider

                 determines that providing the requested service would, without such new facilities

                 or upgrades, impair or degrade reliability to any existing firm services.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          15.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Other Transmission Service Schedules
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        Eligible Customers receiving Transmission Service under Grandfathered

                 Agreements and ITC Grandfathered Agreements may continue to receive

                 Transmission Service under those agreements until such time as those agreements

                 may be modified by the Commission.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             15.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Marginal Losses
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


                        System Losses are associated with all Transmission Service including

                 Transmission Service associated with Grandfathered Agreements. The

                 Transmission Provider shall assess to Market Participants the Marginal Losses

                 Component of Ex Post LMP, as specified in Sections 39.2.9, 39.3.3.c.ii, 40.2.11,

                 and 40.4.1.




                                                                         Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                      16
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Customer Responsibilities
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              16.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Conditions Required of Transmission Customers
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          Point-To-Point Transmission Service shall be provided by the Transmission Provider, or,

   as applicable, the ITC only if the following conditions are satisfied by the Transmission

   Customer:

       a. The Transmission Customer has pending a Completed Application for service;

       b. The Transmission Customer meets the creditworthiness criteria set forth in Attachment L;

       c. The Transmission Customer will have arrangements in place for any other Transmission

          Service necessary to effect the delivery from the Generating Source to the Transmission

          Provider prior to the time service under Module B of this Tariff commences;

       d. The Transmission Customer agrees to pay for any facilities constructed and chargeable to

          such Transmission Customer under Module B of this Tariff, whether or not the

          Transmission Customer takes service for the full term of its reservation;

       e. The Transmission Customer provides the information required by the Transmission

          Provider’s planning process established in Attachment FF; and

       f. The Transmission Customer has executed a Point-To-Point Service Agreement or has

          agreed to receive service pursuant to Section 15.3.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             16.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Customer Responsibility for Third-Party Arrangements
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        Any scheduling arrangements that may be required by other electric

                 systems shall be the responsibility of the Transmission Customer requesting

                 service. The Transmission Customer shall provide, unless waived by the

                 Transmission Provider, notification to the Transmission Provider identifying such

                 systems and authorizing them to schedule the Capacity and Energy to be

                 transmitted by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Module B of this Tariff on

                 behalf of the Receiving Party at the Point of Delivery or the Delivering Party at

                 the Point of Receipt. However, the Transmission Provider will undertake

                 reasonable efforts to assist the Transmission Customer in making such

                 arrangements, including without limitation, providing any information or data

                 required by such other electric system pursuant to Good Utility Practice.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   17
FERC Electric Tariff   Arranging Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                            30.0.0




                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             17.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Application
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              A request for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service for

                       periods of one year or longer must contain a written Application to the

                       Transmission Provider submitted in accordance with the timelines set

                       forth in Attachment J. All Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       requests should be submitted by entering the information listed below on

                       the Transmission Provider’s OASIS.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             17.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Time Requirements
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              Attachment J lists the time requirements applicable to when the

                       requests must be made, the evaluation of the requests, and the

                       Transmission Customer response. Requests for Firm Point-To-Point

                       Service that are subject to no earlier than submission timelines and that are

                       submitted during the first five minutes after the time when Firm Point-To-

                       Point Service can first be requested on the OASIS in accordance with

                       Attachment J, will be considered as if they were submitted simultaneously

                       during such window as set forth in Section 17.6 of this Tariff.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               17.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Completed Application
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                                A Completed Application shall provide all of the information
                       included in 18 C.F.R. § 2.20 including but not limited to the following:
                       (i)      The identity, address, email address, telephone number and
                                facsimile number of the entity requesting service;
                       (ii)     A statement that the entity requesting service is, or will be upon
                                commencement of service, an Eligible Customer under this Tariff;
                       (iii)    The location of the Point(s) of Receipt and Point(s) of Delivery
                                and the identities of the Delivering Parties and the Receiving
                                Parties;
                       (iv)     The location of the Generation Resource(s) supplying the capacity
                                and Energy and the location of the Load ultimately served by the
                                capacity and energy transmitted. The Transmission Provider will
                                treat this information as confidential except to the extent that
                                disclosure of this information is required by this Tariff, by
                                regulatory or judicial order, for reliability purposes pursuant to
                                Good Utility Practice or pursuant to RTG transmission information
                                sharing agreements. The Transmission Provider shall treat this
                                information consistent with the standards of conduct contained in
                                Part 37 of the Commission’s regulations;
                       (v)      A description of the supply characteristics of the capacity and
                                Energy to be delivered;
                       (vi)     An estimate of the Capacity and Energy expected to be delivered
                                to the Receiving Party;
                       (vii)    The service commencement date and the term of the requested
                                Transmission Service; and
                       (viii)   The transmission capacity requested for each Point of Receipt and
                                each Point of Delivery on the Transmission Provider’s
                                Transmission System; customers may combine their requests for
                                service in order to satisfy the minimum transmission capacity
                                requirement. The Transmission Provider and, when ITC Service is



                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            17.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Completed Application
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              requested, ITC shall treat this information consistent with the
                              standards of conduct contained in Part 37 of the Commission’s
                              regulations.
                       (ix)   A statement indicating that, if the Eligible Customer submits a pre-
                              confirmed Application, the Eligible Customer will execute a
                              Service Agreement upon receipt of notification that the
                              Transmission Provider can provide the requested Transmission
                              Service; and
                       (x)    Any additional information required by the Transmission
                              Provider’s planning process established in Attachment FF.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  17.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                               Deposit
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


                        A Completed Application for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                 also shall include, at the discretion of Transmission Provider, a deposit of either

                 one month’s charge for Reserved Capacity, the full charge for Reserved Capacity

                 for service requests of less than one month, or a request for waiver of such

                 deposit, which request shall be accepted if the Eligible Customer is found by the

                 Transmission Provider to be creditworthy.

                        If the Application is rejected by the Transmission Provider because it does

                 not meet the conditions for service as set forth herein, or in the case of requests

                 for service arising in connection with losing bidders in a Request For Proposals

                 (“RFP”), said deposit shall be returned with interest less any reasonable costs

                 incurred by the Transmission Provider in connection with the review of the losing

                 bidder’s Application. The deposit also will be returned with interest less any

                 reasonable costs incurred by the Transmission Provider if the Transmission

                 Provider is unable to complete new facilities needed to provide the service.

                        If an Application is withdrawn or the Eligible Customer decides not to

                 enter into a Service Agreement for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service,

                 any deposit shall be refunded in full, with interest, less reasonable costs incurred

                 by the Transmission Provider to the extent such costs have not already been

                 recovered by the Transmission Provider from the Eligible Customer. The

                 Transmission Provider will provide to the Eligible Customer a complete

                 accounting of all costs deducted from any refunded deposit, which the Eligible

                 Customer may contest if there is a dispute concerning the deducted costs.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                17.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                             Deposit
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                 Deposits associated with construction of new facilities are subject to the

                 provisions of Section 19. If a Service Agreement for Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service is executed, any deposit, with interest, will be returned to

                 the Transmission Customer upon expiration or termination of the Service

                 Agreement for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. Applicable interest

                 shall be computed in accordance with the Commission’s regulations at 18 C.F.R.

                 § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii) and shall be calculated from the day the deposit check is

                 credited to the Transmission Provider’s account.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                17.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Notice of Deficient Application
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        If an Application fails to meet the requirements of this Tariff, the

                 Transmission Provider shall notify the entity requesting service within the

                 applicable time period set forth in Attachment J for responding to Applications.

                 The Transmission Provider will attempt to remedy minor deficiencies in the

                 Application through informal communications with the Eligible Customer. If

                 such efforts are unsuccessful, the Transmission Provider shall return the

                 Application, along with any deposit, with interest. Upon receipt of a new or

                 revised Application that fully complies with the requirements of Module B of this

                 Tariff, the Eligible Customer shall be assigned a new priority consistent with the

                 date of the new or revised Application.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              17.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Response to a Completed Application
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        Following receipt of a Completed Application for Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service, the Transmission Provider shall make a determination of

                 available transfer capability as required in Section 15.2.   If sufficient

                 transmission capacity is not available to meet requests submitted during the five

                 minute window described in Section 17.2 of this Tariff, the system(s) will

                 implement a Customer Allocation Lottery methodology for awarding of

                 transmission capacity to the TSRs submitted. The Customer Allocation Lottery is

                 conducted for all TSRs submitted during the five minute window and establishes

                 the relative order for evaluation of SSW TSRs within the overall queue of

                 pending requests being processed within the system. The Customer Allocation

                 Lottery will sort the impacted TSRs by priority based on NERC curtailment

                 priority, request duration, and pre-confirmation status. TSRs within the tiers will

                 then be assigned a random queue position and responses to Completed

                 Applications (including AFC evaluations and grants of service) will occur in

                 accordance with this Tariff in the numerical order established using the queue

                 position assigned via the Customer Allocation Lottery. Transmission Customers

                 will not be allocated transmission capacity in excess of the capacity requested in

                 the TSR submitted; however, based on the queue position and the amount of

                 available AFC, each TSR shall be awarded the full amount of capacity requested,

                 a portion thereof or no capacity. During the conduct of each lottery, all of the

                 requested AFC will be allocated.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              17.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Response to a Completed Application
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider shall notify the Eligible Customer in

                 accordance with the times in Attachment J either (i) if it will be able to provide

                 service without performing a System Impact Study or (ii) if such a study is needed

                 to evaluate the impact of the Application pursuant to Section 19.1. Responses by

                 the Transmission Provider must be made as soon as practicable to all completed

                 applications on a non-discriminatory basis.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               17.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Execution of Service Agreement
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        Whenever the Transmission Provider or, as applicable, ITC determines

                 that a System Impact Study is not required and that the service can be provided,

                 Transmission Provider shall notify the Eligible Customer consistent with the

                 applicable time period set forth in Attachment J. Where a System Impact Study is

                 required, the provisions of Section 19 will govern the execution of a Service

                 Agreement. Failure of an Eligible Customer to execute and return the Service

                 Agreement or request the filing of an unexecuted service agreement pursuant to

                 Section 15.3, within the times in Attachment J will be deemed a withdrawal and

                 termination of the Application and any deposit submitted shall be refunded with

                 interest. Nothing herein limits the right of an Eligible Customer to file another

                 Application after such withdrawal and termination.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            17.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Extensions for Commencement of Service
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        The Transmission Customer can obtain, subject to availability, up to five

                 (5) one-year extensions for the commencement of service. The Transmission

                 Customer may postpone service by notifying the Transmission Provider or, as

                 applicable, ITC, 31 days prior to the commencement date of the service as

                 initially requested and paying a non-refundable annual reservation fee equal to

                 one (1) month’s charge for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service for each

                 year or fraction thereof within fifteen (15) days of notification to the Transmission

                 Provider of its intent to extend the commencement of service. If during any

                 extension for the commencement of service an Eligible Customer submits a

                 Completed Application for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service, and such

                 request can be satisfied only by releasing all or part of the Transmission

                 Customer’s Reserved Capacity, the original Reserved Capacity will be released

                 unless the following condition is satisfied. Within thirty (30) days, the original

                 Transmission Customer agrees to pay the Firm Point-To-Point transmission rate

                 for its Reserved Capacity concurrent with the new Service Commencement Date.

                 In the event the Transmission Customer elects to release the Reserved Capacity,

                 the reservation fees or portions thereof previously paid will be forfeited.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                       18
FERC Electric Tariff   Arranging Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             18.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Application
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        Eligible Customers seeking Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

                 Service must submit a Completed Application to the Transmission Provider.

                 Applications should be submitted by entering the information listed below on the

                 Transmission Provider’s OASIS.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               18.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Completed Application
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        A Completed Application shall provide all of the information included in

                 18 C.F.R. § 2.20 including but not limited to the following:

                 i.     The identity, address, email address, telephone number and facsimile

                        number of the entity requesting service;

                 ii.    A statement that the entity requesting service is, or will be upon
                        commencement of service, an Eligible Customer under the Tariff;
                 iii.   The Point(s) of Receipt and the Point(s) of Delivery;


                 iv.    The maximum amount of capacity requested at each Point of Receipt and
                        Point of Delivery; and
                 v.     The proposed dates and hours for initiating and terminating Transmission
                        Service hereunder. In addition to the information specified above, when
                        required to properly evaluate system conditions, the Transmission
                        Provider also may ask the Transmission Customer to provide the
                        information indicated in (vi) and (vii) below.
                 vi.    The electrical location of the initial source of the power to be transmitted

                        pursuant to the Transmission Customer’s request for service; and

                 vii.   The electrical location of the ultimate Load. The Transmission Provider

                        and, when ITC Service is requested, the ITC will treat this information in

                        (vi) and (vii) as confidential at the request of the Transmission Customer

                        except to the extent that disclosure of this information is required by this

                        Tariff, by regulatory or judicial order, for reliability purposes pursuant to

                        Good Utility Practice, or pursuant to RTG transmission information

                        sharing agreements. The Transmission Provider and, as applicable, the

                        ITC shall treat this information consistent with the standards of conduct




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              18.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Completed Application
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                         contained in Part 37 of the Commission’s regulations.

                 viii.   A statement indicating that, if the Eligible Customer submits a pre-

                         confirmed Application, the Eligible Customer will execute a Service

                         Agreement upon receipt of notification that the Transmission Provider can

                         provide the requested Transmission Service.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            18.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Requests and Responses for Non-Firm Point-to-Point Service
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        Attachment J lists the time requirements applicable to when the requests

                 must be made, the evaluation of the requests, and the Transmission Customer

                 response. Requests for service received later than the applicable time prior to the

                 day service is scheduled to commence will be accommodated if practicable.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              18.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Determination of Available Transfer Capability
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        Following receipt of a tendered schedule the Transmission Provider will

                 make a determination on a non-discriminatory basis of available transfer

                 capability pursuant to Section 15.2. Such determination shall be made as soon as

                 reasonably practicable after receipt, but not later than the time periods specified in

                 Attachment J.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          19
FERC Electric Tariff   Additional Study Procedures For Firm Point-To-Point TSRs
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0




                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             19.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Notice of Need for System Impact Study
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                         After receiving a request for service, the Transmission Provider or ITC, as

                 applicable, shall determine on a non-discriminatory basis whether a System

                 Impact Study is needed. Such review, to the extent reasonably feasible, shall rely

                 upon existing planning studies and System Impact Studies. A description of the

                 Transmission Provider’s and, as applicable, ITC’s methodology for completing a

                 System Impact Study is provided in Attachment D.

                         If the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, determines that a

                 System Impact Study is necessary to accommodate the requested service, the

                 Transmission Provider shall so inform the Eligible Customer within the times

                 specified in Attachment J. The Transmission Provider shall within thirty (30)

                 days of receipt of a Completed Application tender a System Impact Study

                 Agreement in the form of Attachment D-1 of this Tariff, pursuant to which the

                 Eligible Customer shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider or ITC, as

                 applicable, for performing the required System Impact Study including any costs

                 of the Transmission Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s) where applicable. For a

                 service request to remain a Completed Application, the Eligible Customer shall

                 execute the System Impact Study agreement and return it to the Transmission

                 Provider within the time provided for in Attachment J. If the Eligible Customer

                 elects not to execute the System Impact Study agreement, its application shall be

                 deemed withdrawn and any deposit, pursuant to Section 17.4, shall be returned

                 with interest.




                                                                          Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                     19.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Notice of Need for System Impact Study
MODULES                                                31.0.0




                                 Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                          19.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Exception to Need for System Impact Study
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


          Generally, a System Impact Study is required to approve requests for Firm Point-to-Point

   Service with a duration of one year or longer. There is one instance where a request can be

   approved without an individualized System Impact Study.




                                                                        Effective On: February 1, 2016
MISO                                                                                       19.1.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                              Withdrawal of Higher Queued Request on Same Path
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


          If a request for long term Firm Point-to-Point service is studied in a System Impact

   Study, but ultimately does not result in service being taken by the Transmission Customer, and

   there is another request of equal or fewer MW next in queue, then the subsequent request can

   utilize the higher queued request’s System Impact Study results and proceed with one of the

   following two steps.

          i)     If there are no constraints identified in the System Impact Study, then the Eligible

                 Customer will be required to execute the Service Agreement within the

                 Attachment J timeline.


          ii)    If there are constraints that need to be mitigated by the transmission customer,

                 then the Transmission Provider will proceed with a Facilities Study, if that

                 Facilities Study was not completed by the higher queued request, and notify and

                 send a Facilities Study agreement within the Attachment J timeline.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                    19.1.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Pre-Certified Point to Point Transmission Drive-Out Paths
MODULES                                                                   32.0.0




                                                 Effective On: February 1, 2016
MISO                                                                                        19.2
FERC Electric Tariff                       System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


                       (i)     The System Impact Study agreement will clearly specify the

                               Transmission Provider’s or, as applicable, ITC’s estimate of the

                               actual cost, and time for completion of the System Impact Study.

                               The charge shall not exceed the actual cost of the study. In

                               performing the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider

                               or, as applicable, ITC shall rely, to the extent reasonably

                               practicable, on existing transmission planning studies. The

                               Eligible Customer will not be assessed a charge for such existing

                               studies; however, the Eligible Customer will be responsible for

                               charges associated with any modifications to existing planning

                               studies that are reasonably necessary to evaluate the impact of the

                               Eligible Customer’s request for service on the Transmission

                               System.

                       (ii)    If in response to multiple Eligible Customers requesting service in

                               relation to the same competitive solicitation, a single System

                               Impact Study is sufficient for the Transmission Provider or ITC, as

                               applicable, to accommodate the requests for service, the costs of

                               that study shall be pro-rated among the Eligible Customers.

                       (iii)   Each Transmission Owner shall pay the Transmission Provider for

                               System Impact Studies that the Transmission Provider conducts on

                               the Transmission Owner’s behalf in instances where merchant

                               employees of the Transmission Owner, or as applicable the ITC,




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                               19.2
FERC Electric Tariff              System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement
MODULES                                                                          30.0.0


                       have requested Transmission Service, the same as any non-

                       transmission owning customer.




                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              19.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    System Impact Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                        Upon receipt of an executed System Impact Study Agreement in the form

                 of Attachment D-1 of this Tariff, the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable,

                 will use due diligence to complete the required System Impact Study in

                 coordination with the relevant Transmission Owners within sixty (60) days or as

                 soon as practicable. The System Impact Study shall identify (1) any system

                 constraints, identified with specificity by transmission element or flowgate, and

                 (2) additional Direct Assignment Facilities or Network Upgrades required to

                 provide the requested service.

                        In the event that the Transmission Provider or ITC is unable to complete

                 the required System Impact Study within such time period, it shall so notify the

                 Eligible Customer and provide an estimated completion date along with an

                 explanation of the reasons why additional time is required to complete the

                 required studies. A copy of the completed System Impact Study and related work

                 papers shall be made available to the Eligible Customer as soon as the System

                 Impact Study is complete. The Transmission Provider or ITC will use the same

                 due diligence in completing the System Impact Study for an Eligible Customer as

                 it uses when completing studies for Transmission Owners or ITC Participants.

                        The Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, shall notify the Eligible

                 Customer immediately upon completion of the System Impact Study if the

                 Transmission System will be adequate to accommodate all or part of a request for

                 service or that no costs are likely to be incurred for new transmission facilities or

                 upgrades. In order for a request to remain a Completed Application, within the




                                                                            Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                            19.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  System Impact Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


                 time period set forth in Attachment J for a customer response from the date of

                 completion of the System Impact Study the Eligible Customer must execute a

                 Service Agreement or request the filing of an unexecuted Service Agreement

                 pursuant to Section 15.3 or the Application shall be deemed terminated and

                 withdrawn.




                                                                         Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                                 19.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Facilities Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


          If a System Impact Study indicates that additions or upgrades to the Transmission System

   are needed to supply the Eligible Customer’s service request, the Transmission Provider, within

   thirty (30) days of the completion of the System Impact Study, shall tender to the Eligible

   Customer a Facilities Study Agreement pursuant to which the Eligible Customer shall agree to

   reimburse the Transmission Provider or, as applicable, ITC and any affected Transmission

   Owner(s) for performing the required Facilities Study. For a service request to remain a

   Completed Application, the Eligible Customer shall execute the Facilities Study Agreement in

   the form of Attachment D-2 of this Tariff and return it to the Transmission Provider within

   fifteen (15) days. If the Eligible Customer elects not to execute the Facilities Study Agreement,

   its application shall be deemed withdrawn and any deposit, pursuant to Section 17.4, shall be

   returned with interest. Upon receipt of an executed Facilities Study Agreement, the

   Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, in coordination with the appropriate Transmission

   Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s) will use due diligence to complete the required Facilities Study

   within a one hundred and twenty (120) day period.

          If the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, together with the affected

   Transmission Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s) are unable to complete the Facilities Study in the

   allotted time period, the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, shall notify the

   Transmission Customer and provide an estimate of the time needed to reach a final determination

   along with an explanation of the reasons that additional time is required to complete the study.

   When completed, the Facilities Study will include a good faith estimate of: (i) the cost of Direct

   Assignment Facilities to be charged to the Transmission Customer; (ii) the Transmission

   Customer’s appropriate share of the cost of any required Network Upgrades as determined




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 19.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Facilities Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   pursuant to the provisions of Module B of this Tariff; and (iii) the time required to complete such

   construction and initiate the requested service. Unless the Transmission Provider determines that

   the Transmission Customer already has a letter(s) of credit or other form(s) of security on file

   with the Transmission Provider that is sufficient to cover its existing and proposed obligations,

   the Transmission Customer shall be requested to provide the Transmission Provider with a letter

   of credit or other reasonable form of security acceptable to the Transmission Provider or ITC, as

   applicable, equivalent to the costs of new facilities or upgrades consistent with commercial

   practices as established by the Uniform Commercial Code. Within the time set out on

   Attachment J, the Transmission Customer shall execute a Service Agreement or request the filing

   of an unexecuted Service Agreement and provide the required letter of credit or other form of

   security or the request will no longer be a Completed Application and shall be deemed

   terminated and withdrawn.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             19.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Changes in Facilities Study Assumptions
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                              Any changes to the original assumptions, considered during the

                       System Impact Study, that arise during the Facilities Study, that can

                       materially impact the results of the Facilities Study, may require the

                       Transmission Provider to re-evaluate the results of the original System

                       Impact Study. If the Transmission Provider ascertains that the changes in

                       assumptions are material modifications to the original scope of the study,

                       that could change the outcome of the Facilities Study, then the

                       Transmission Provider shall temporarily stop work on the Facilities Study

                       until the results from the re-evaluation are available. After the re-

                       evaluation results are available, the Transmission Provider will make the

                       final determination whether the initial Facilities Study should proceed

                       based on the original scope or based on the revised scope. If the scope of

                       the initial Facilities Study needs to be revised, then the Transmission

                       Provider will reset the one hundred and twenty (120) day clock to perform

                       the revised Facilities Study. The Transmission Provider will take

                       appropriate steps to communicate to the customer the revised scope and

                       schedule the revised Facilities Study.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                    19.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Changes in Facilities Study Assumptions
MODULES                                                 30.0.0




                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                19.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Facilities Study Modifications
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        Any change in design arising from inability to site or construct facilities as

                 proposed will require development of a revised good faith estimate. New good

                 faith estimates also will be required in the event of new statutory or regulatory

                 requirements that are effective before the completion of construction or other

                 circumstances beyond the control of the Transmission Provider, ITC, ITC

                 Participant(s), or the affected Transmission Owner(s) that significantly affect the

                 final cost of new facilities or upgrades to be charged to the Transmission

                 Customer pursuant to the provisions of Module B of this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           19.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Due Diligence in Completing New Facilities
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider or the ITC, as applicable, and the affected

                 Transmission Owner(s) shall use due diligence to add necessary facilities or

                 upgrade the Transmission System within a reasonable time. The Transmission

                 Provider will not allow the upgrade to the existing or planned Transmission

                 System in order to provide the requested Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

                 Service if doing so would impair system reliability or otherwise impair or degrade

                 existing firm service.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 19.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Partial Interim Service
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


                        If the Transmission Provider or ITC determines that it will not have

                 adequate transfer capability to satisfy the full amount of a Completed Application

                 for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service, the Transmission Provider

                 nonetheless shall be obligated to offer and provide the portion of the requested

                 Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service that can be accommodated without

                 addition of any facilities. However, the Transmission Provider shall not be

                 obligated to provide the incremental amount of requested Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service that requires the addition of facilities or upgrades to the

                 Transmission System until such facilities or upgrades have been placed in service.




                                                                           Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                              19.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Expedited Procedures for New Facilities
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        In lieu of the procedures set forth above, the Eligible Customer shall have

                 the option to expedite the process by requesting the Transmission Provider to

                 tender at one time, together with the results of required studies, an expedited

                 Service Agreement pursuant to which the Eligible Customer would agree to

                 compensate the Transmission Provider or ITC and the affected Transmission

                 Owner(s) for all costs incurred pursuant to the terms of this Tariff. In order to

                 exercise this option, the Eligible Customer shall request in writing an expedited

                 Service Agreement covering all of the above-specified items within the time

                 limits set forth in Attachment J from the time it receives the results of the System

                 Impact Study identifying needed facility additions or upgrades or costs incurred in

                 providing the requested service.

                        While the Transmission Provider, ITC, as applicable, and the affected

                 Transmission Owner(s) agree to provide the Eligible Customer with their best

                 estimate of the new facility costs and other charges that may be incurred, such

                 estimate shall not be binding and the Eligible Customer must agree in writing to

                 compensate the Transmission Provider, ITC, and the affected Transmission

                 Owner(s) for all costs incurred pursuant to the provisions of the Tariff. The

                 Eligible Customer shall execute and return such an Expedited Service Agreement

                 within fifteen (15) days of its receipt or the Eligible Customer’s request for

                 service will cease to be a Completed Application and will be deemed terminated

                 and withdrawn.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                     19.8
FERC Electric Tariff   Expedited Procedures for New Facilities
MODULES                                               30.0.0




                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                19.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


              Sections 19.3 and 19.4 of this Tariff require a Transmission Provider to use due

              diligence to meet sixty (60) day study completion deadlines for System Impact

              Studies and a one hundred and twenty (120) day completion deadline for Facilities

              Studies.

              (i) The Transmission Provider is required to file a notice with the Commission in the

                 event that more than twenty percent (20%) of non-Affiliates’ System Impact

                 Studies and Facilities Studies completed by the Transmission Provider in any two

                 (2) consecutive calendar quarters are not completed within the sixty (60) day

                 study completion deadlines for System Impact Study, and a one hundred and

                 twenty (120) day study completion deadline for and Facilities Study. Such notice

                 must be filed within thirty (30) days of the end of the calendar quarter triggering

                 the notice requirement.

              (ii) For the purposes of calculating the percent of non-Affiliates’ System Impact

                 Studies and Facilities Studies processed outside of the sixty (60) and one hundred

                 and twenty (120) day study completion deadlines, respectively, the Transmission

                 Provider shall consider all System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies that it

                 completes for non-Affiliates during the calendar quarter. The percentage should

                 be calculated by dividing the number of those studies which are completed on

                 time by the total number of completed studies. The Transmission Provider may

                 provide an explanation in its notification filing to the Commission if it believes

                 there are extenuating circumstances that prevented it from meeting the sixty (60)

                 day study completion deadlines for System Impact Studies and the one hundred




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                19.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                 and twenty (120) day study completion times for the facilities study.

              (iii)The Transmission Provider is subject to an operational penalty if it completes ten

                 percent (10%) or more of non-Affiliates’ System Impact Studies and Facilities

                 Studies outside of the sixty (60) and one hundred and twenty (120) day study

                 completion deadlines, respectively, for each of the two (2) calendar quarters

                 immediately following the quarter that triggered its notification filing to the

                 Commission. The operational penalty will be assessed for each calendar quarter

                 for which an operational penalty applies, starting with the calendar quarter

                 immediately following the quarter that triggered the Transmission Provider’s

                 notification filing to the Commission. The operational penalty will continue to be

                 assessed each quarter until the Transmission Provider completes at least ninety

                 percent (90%) of all non-Affiliates’ System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies

                 within the sixty (60) and one hundred and twenty (120) day deadline,

                 respectively.

   (iv)   For penalties assessed in accordance with subsection (iii) above, the penalty amount for

   each System Impact Study or Facilities Study shall be equal to $500 for each day the

   Transmission Provider takes to complete that study beyond the sixty (60) and one hundred and

   twenty (120) day deadline, respectively.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                             19.9
FERC Electric Tariff   Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines:
MODULES                                                       30.0.0




                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                            20
FERC Electric Tariff   Procedures if Unable to Complete New Facilities for Service
MODULES                                                                     30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               20.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Delays in Construction of New Facilities
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        If any event occurs that will materially affect the time for completion of

                 new facilities, or the ability to complete them, the Transmission Provider shall

                 promptly notify the Transmission Customer. In such circumstances, the

                 Transmission Provider shall within thirty (30) days of notifying the Transmission

                 Customer of such delays, convene a technical meeting with the Transmission

                 Customer and the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC to evaluate the

                 alternatives available to the Transmission Customer. The Transmission Provider

                 also shall make available to the Transmission Customer studies and work papers

                 related to the delay, including all information that is in the possession of the

                 Transmission Provider and affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC that is

                 reasonably needed by the Transmission Customer to evaluate any alternatives.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 20.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Alternatives to the Original Facility Additions
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        When the review process of Section 20.1 determines that one or more

                 alternatives exist to the originally planned construction project, the Transmission

                 Provider together with the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC shall present

                 such alternatives for consideration by the Transmission Customer. If, upon

                 review of any alternatives, the Transmission Customer desires to maintain its

                 Completed Application subject to construction of the alternative facilities, it may

                 request the Transmission Provider to submit a revised Service Agreement for

                 Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service. If the alternative approach solely

                 involves Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service, the Transmission

                 Provider shall promptly tender a Service Agreement for Non-Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service providing for the service. In the event the Transmission

                 Provider concludes that no reasonable alternative exists and the Transmission

                 Customer disagrees, the Transmission Customer may seek relief under the dispute

                 resolution procedures pursuant to Section 12 or it may refer the dispute to the

                 Commission for resolution.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              20.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Refund Obligation for Unfinished Facility Additions
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        If the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Customer mutually

                 agree that no other reasonable alternatives exist and the requested service cannot

                 be provided out of existing capability under the conditions of Module B of this

                 Tariff, the obligation to provide the requested Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

                 Service shall terminate and any deposit made by the Transmission Customer shall

                 be returned with interest pursuant to Commission regulations at 18 C.F.R. §

                 35.19a(a)(2)(iii). However, the Transmission Customer shall be responsible for

                 all prudently incurred costs by the Transmission Provider and the affected ITC

                 and Transmission Owner(s) through the time construction was suspended.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        21
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Construction and Service on Other Utilities
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              21.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Responsibility for Third-Party System Additions
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                         The Transmission Provider, Transmission Owners, ITC, and ITC

                 Participants shall not be responsible for making arrangements for any necessary

                 engineering, permitting, and construction of transmission or Distribution Facilities

                 on the system(s) of any other entity or for obtaining any regulatory approval for

                 such facilities. The Transmission Provider and the affected ITC and Transmission

                 Owner(s) will undertake reasonable efforts to assist the Transmission Customer in

                 obtaining such arrangements, including without limitation, providing any

                 information or data required by such other electric system pursuant to Good

                 Utility Practice.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              21.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Coordination of Third-Party System Additions
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        In circumstances where the need for transmission facilities or upgrades is

                 identified pursuant to the provisions of Module B of this Tariff, and if such

                 upgrades further require the addition of transmission facilities on other systems,

                 the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC in coordination with the

                 Transmission Provider shall have the right to coordinate construction on its (their)

                 own system(s) with the construction required by others. The Transmission

                 Provider together with the affected Transmission Owner(s), and ITC after

                 consultation with the Transmission Customer and representatives of such other

                 systems, may defer construction of new transmission facilities, if the new

                 transmission facilities on another system cannot be completed in a timely manner.

                 The Transmission Provider shall notify the Transmission Customer in writing of

                 the basis for any decision to defer construction and the specific problems which

                 must be resolved before construction of new facilities will be initiated or resumed.

                 Within sixty (60) days of receiving written notification by the Transmission

                 Provider of the intent to defer construction pursuant to this section, the

                 Transmission Customer may challenge the decision in accordance with the

                 dispute resolution procedures pursuant to Section 12 or it may refer the dispute to

                 the Commission for resolution.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    22
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Changes in Service Specifications
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   All changes in service specifications shall be subject to reservation priority set forth in Sections

   13.2 and 14.2 of this Tariff as if each change was an original request for transmission service.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             22.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Modifications on a Non-Firm Basis
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        The Transmission Customer taking Firm Point-To-Point Transmission

                 Service may request the Transmission Provider to provide Transmission Service

                 on a non-firm basis over Receipt and Delivery Points other than those specified in

                 the Service Agreement (“Secondary Receipt and Delivery Points”), in amounts

                 not to exceed its firm capacity reservation, without incurring an additional Non-

                 Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service charge (except as provided in Section

                 22.2) or executing a new Service Agreement, subject to the following conditions.

                 a.     Service provided over secondary Receipt and Delivery Points will be non-

                        firm only, on an as-available basis and will not displace any firm or non-

                        firm service reserved or scheduled by third-parties under this Tariff or by

                        the Transmission Owner on behalf of its Native Load Customers.

                 b.     The sum of all Firm and Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                        provided to the Transmission Customer at any time pursuant to this

                        section shall not exceed the Reserved Capacity in the relevant Service

                        Agreement under which such services are provided.

                 c.     The Transmission Customer shall retain its right to schedule Firm Point-

                        To-Point Transmission Service at the Receipt and Delivery Points

                        specified in the relevant Service Agreement in the amount of its original

                        capacity reservation.

                 d.     Service over secondary Receipt and Delivery Points on a non-firm basis

                        shall not require the filing of an Application for Non-Firm Point-To-Point

                        Transmission Service under this Tariff. However, all other requirements




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            22.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Modifications on a Non-Firm Basis
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                       of Module B of this Tariff (except as to transmission rates) shall apply to

                       Transmission Service on a non-firm basis over secondary Receipt and

                       Delivery Points.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                22.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Additional Charge to Prevent Abuse
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        If a Transmission Customer making the modifications in Section 22.1

                 takes service over a transmission path that costs more than the path the

                 Transmission Customer initially reserved, then for the service the Transmission

                 Customer schedules, the Transmission Customer shall pay in addition to the

                 amounts based on its initial reservation the additional costs (i.e., the difference

                 between the zonal rates) associated with the new path. Such additional charge

                 shall be prorated to apply only for the period of time during which service is

                 scheduled over the secondary path. In addition, the Market Participant shall pay

                 for Marginal Losses and any congestion relief costs based on the actual

                 transmission path for which service is scheduled according to the provisions in

                 Module C.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                22.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Modification on a Firm Basis
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        Any request by a Transmission Customer taking Firm Point-To-Point

                 Transmission Service to modify Receipt and Delivery Points on a firm basis shall

                 be treated as a new request for service in accordance with Section 17 hereof,

                 except that such Transmission Customer shall not be obligated to pay any

                 additional deposit if the capacity reservation does not exceed the amount reserved

                 in the existing Service Agreement. While such new request is pending, the

                 Transmission Customer shall retain its priority for service at the existing firm

                 Receipt and Delivery Points specified in its Service Agreement.

                        a. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Receipt or Delivery Point is

                            modified on a short-term basis (i.e., daily, weekly or monthly for a

                            term less than 12 full months) resulting in a transmission path

                            (“redirect path”) for which the applicable transmission rate is lower

                            than the transmission rate in effect between the original Receipt and

                            Delivery Points (“original path”), the Transmission Customer shall

                            pay, in addition to the amounts associated with the redirect path, an

                            additional charge reflecting the difference in the firm transmission and

                            applicable ancillary services rates between the original path and the

                            redirect path for the duration its service is redirected pursuant to this

                            Section 22.3. The term “original Receipt and Delivery Points,” as

                            used in this subsection (a), shall mean the initial set of Receipt and

                            Delivery Points rather than any Receipt or Delivery Point modified

                            under Section 22.3.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          22.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Modification on a Firm Basis
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                       Crediting Procedure

                       For purposes of this Crediting Procedure, the term “constrained path”

                       shall mean instances where a path between a Point of Receipt and a

                       Point of Delivery is comprised of a single or multi-element interface

                       for which transmission service is administered to the interface limit

                       and a single flowgate has been defined and which is fully subscribed

                       with firm Transmission Service at the time service is redirected

                       pursuant to this Section 22.3. If all or part of the transmission capacity

                       on the constrained path that becomes available as a result of a firm

                       redirect originating on that path is subsequently resold as new firm

                       service, the redirecting customer(s) will receive a credit on a pro-rata

                       MWh basis. The credit shall be for the same number of MWhs that

                       were resold on the original path and shall represent the per MWh

                       incremental charge that was collected from the redirecting customer

                       pursuant to this paragraph (a) of Section 22.3 of the Tariff.




                                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                           23
FERC Electric Tariff   Sale or Assignment of Transmission Service
MODULES                                                    30.0.0




                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               23.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Procedures for Assignment or Transfer of Service
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                 (a)    A Transmission Customer may sell, assign, or transfer all or a portion of

                 its rights under its Service Agreement, but only to another Eligible Customer (the

                 “Assignee”). The Transmission Customer that sells, assigns or transfers its rights

                 under its Service Agreement is hereafter referred to as the “Reseller.”

                 Compensation to Resellers shall be at rates established by agreement between the

                 Reseller and the Assignee.

                 (b)    The Assignee must execute a service agreement with the Transmission

                 Provider governing reassignments of transmission service prior to the date on

                 which the reassigned service commences. The Transmission Provider shall

                 charge the Reseller, as appropriate, at the rate stated in the Reseller’s Service

                 Agreement with the Transmission Provider or the associated OASIS schedule and

                 credit the Reseller with the price reflected in the Assignee’s Service Agreement

                 with the Transmission Provider or the associated OASIS schedule; provided that,

                 such credit shall be reversed in the event of non-payment by the Assignee. If the

                 Assignee does not request any change in the Point(s) of Receipt or the Point(s) of

                 Delivery, or a change in any other term or condition set forth in the original

                 Service Agreement, the Assignee will receive the same services as did the

                 Reseller and the priority of service for the Assignee will be the same as that of the

                 Reseller. The Assignee will be subject to all terms and conditions of this Tariff.

                 If the Assignee requests a change in service, the reservation priority of service

                 will be determined by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 13.2.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                               23.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Procedures for Assignment or Transfer of Service
MODULES                                                          30.0.0




                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               23.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Limitations on Assignment or Transfer of Service
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        If the Assignee requests a change in the Point(s) of Receipt or Point(s) of

                 Delivery, or a change in any other specifications set forth in the original Service

                 Agreement, the Transmission Provider will consent to such change subject to the

                 provisions of the Tariff, provided that the change will not impair the operation

                 and reliability of the Transmission Owners’, ITC’s, or ITC Participant’s

                 generation, transmission, or distribution systems. The Assignee also will pay

                 additional charges, if any, provided for by Section 22.2, and for any additional

                 charges, including Ancillary Services, or other Transmission Provider charges. In

                 addition, the Market Participant shall be financially responsible for any Energy,

                 Marginal Congestion Charge, and Marginal Losses associated with related Market

                 Participant’s transactions as set forth in Sections 39.3.1, 39.3.3, 40.3 and 40.4.

                        The Assignee shall compensate the Transmission Provider or ITC, as

                 applicable, for performing any System Impact Study needed to evaluate the

                 capability of the Transmission System to accommodate the proposed change and

                 any additional costs resulting from such change. The Reseller shall remain liable

                 for the performance of all obligations under the Service Agreement, except as

                 specifically agreed to by the Transmission Provider and the Reseller through an

                 amendment to the Service Agreement.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              23.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Information on Assignment or Transfer of Service
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        In accordance with Section 4, all sales or assignments of capacity must be

                 conducted through or otherwise posted on the Transmission Provider’s OASIS on

                 or before the date the reassigned service commences and are subject to Section

                 23.l. Resellers may also use the Transmission Provider’s OASIS to post

                 transmission capacity available for resale.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                     24
FERC Electric Tariff   Metering and Power Factor Correction
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                           Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           24.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Transmission Customer Obligations
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        Unless otherwise agreed, the Transmission Customer shall be responsible

                 for the cost of installing and maintaining compatible metering and communications

                 equipment to accurately account for the Energy being transmitted under this Tariff

                 and to communicate the information to the Transmission Provider. Such equipment

                 installed on the Transmission Customer’s system shall remain the property of the

                 Transmission Customer. Such equipment installed on the Transmission Owner’s or

                 ITC’s system shall remain the property of the Transmission Owner or ITC.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            24.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Transmission Provider Access to Metering Data
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider or its agent or, as applicable, ITC shall have

                 access to metering data, which may reasonably be required to facilitate

                 measurements and billing under the Service Agreement.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            24.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Power Factor
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        Unless otherwise agreed, the Transmission Customer is required to

                 maintain a power factor within the same range specified by the Transmission

                 Provider, in consultation with the appropriate Transmission Owners and ITC,

                 pursuant to Good Utility Practices. The power factor requirements are specified

                 in the Service Agreement where applicable.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               25
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Compensation for Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                 Rates for Firm and Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service are provided

          in the Schedules appended to this Tariff: Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

          (Schedule 7); and Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service (Schedule 8). In

          addition to paying any applicable Operating Reserve costs and Other Ancillary Service

          costs, the Transmission Customer also shall pay: (i) the Transmission Provider’s costs in

          accordance with Schedule 10 and/or, if applicable; (ii) the ITC administrative fee plus

          any other applicable charges in accordance with the applicable ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 26
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Stranded Cost Recovery
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                 This Tariff, including any ITC Rate Schedule, does not affect in any way the right

          of any Transmission Owner or ITC Participant to seek and receive stranded cost recovery

          or the right of anyone to oppose such stranded cost recovery. Thus, the Transmission

          Owner(s) or ITC Participant(s) may seek to recover stranded costs from the User(s) in

          accordance with the terms, conditions and procedures set forth in FERC Order No. 888.

          However, the Transmission Owner(s) or ITC Participant(s) must separately file any

          specific proposed stranded cost charge under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act. If

          the Commission approves stranded cost charges to be recovered through schedules to be

          implemented by the Transmission Provider, the Transmission Provider as agent shall

          charge and collect the appropriate charge(s) from the relevant User(s) and distribute the

          appropriate amounts directly to the relevant Transmission Owner(s) or ITC Participant(s).




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              27
FERC Electric Tariff                            Compensation for New Facilities and Redispatch Costs
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


                 Whenever a System Impact Study performed by the Transmission Provider in

          connection with the provision of Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service identifies the

          need for new facilities, the recovery of such costs shall be governed by Attachment N.




                                                                          Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                        27A
FERC Electric TariffPOINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION SERVICE ON HIGH-VOLTAGE DIRECT C
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0


        POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION SERVICE ON HIGH-VOLTAGE DIRECT

        CURRENT FACILITIES



               This Section 27A applies in lieu of Sections 13-27 of the Tariff to govern Point-

        To-Point Transmission Service on HVDC Facilities (HVDC Service). The Transmission

        Provider shall provide Firm and Non-Firm HVDC Service pursuant to the applicable

        terms and conditions of this Section 27A and other applicable provisions of the Tariff for

        Transmission Customers that have executed an HVDC Service Agreement with the

        Transmission Provider. Service under this Section 27A is conditioned on the

        Transmission Provider and the owner or operator of an HVDC Facility executing an

        Agency Agreement or other suitable contractual arrangement permitting the

        Transmission Provider to provide HVDC Service on such HVDC Facility, and such

        HVDC Service shall be provided as long as such Agency Agreement or other contractual

        arrangement remains in effect, unless otherwise provided by the parties thereto. All

        requests for eligible HVDC Service during the first five minutes after the time when Firm

        HVDC Service can first be requested on the OASIS in accordance with Attachment J

        (except for hourly service to which this sentence does not apply), will be considered as if

        they were submitted at the same time.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                               27A.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Nature of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                            31.0.0




                                        Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                             Term of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service:
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


   The minimum term of Firm HVDC Service shall be one (1) day and the maximum term shall be

   that specified in the relevant Transmission Customer’s HVDC Service Agreement.




                                                                  Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                             27A.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                         Reservation Priority for Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Se
MODULES                                                                                             6.0.0


   Reservation Priority for Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service:

   (i)      Long-Term Firm HVDC Service shall be determined on a first-come, first-served basis,

            i.e., in the chronological sequence in which each Transmission customer has reserved

            service.

   (ii)     Reservations for Short-Term Firm HVDC Service will be conditional based upon the

            length of the requested transaction or reservation. However, Pre-Confirmed Requests for

            Short-Term Firm HVDC Service will receive priority over earlier-submitted requests that

            are not Pre-Confirmed and that have equal or shorter duration. Among requests with the

            same duration and, as relevant, pre-confirmation status (pre-confirmed, confirmed, or not

            pre-confirmed), priority will be given to an Eligible Customer’s request or reservation

            based on the earliest date and time of the request or reservation.

    (iii)   If the HVDC Facilities become oversubscribed, requests for service may preempt

            competing requests or reservations up to the following conditional reservation deadlines:

            one day before the commencement of daily service, one week before the commencement

            of weekly service, and one month before the commencement of monthly service. Before

            the conditional reservation deadline, if Available Transfer Capability is insufficient to

            satisfy all requests and reservations, an Eligible Customer with a reservation for shorter

            term service or equal duration service has the right of first refusal to match any longer

            term request or equal duration service before losing its reservation priority. A longer

            term competing request for Short-Term Firm HVDC Service will be granted if the

            Eligible Customer with the right of first refusal does not agree to match the competing

            request within 24 hours (or earlier if necessary to comply with the scheduling deadlines




                                                                            Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                            27A.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                        Reservation Priority for Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Se
MODULES                                                                                            6.0.0


          provided in Section 27A.1.7) from being notified by the Transmission Provider of a

          longer-term competing request for Short-Term Firm HVDC Service. When a longer

          duration request preempts multiple shorter duration reservations, the shorter duration

          reservations shall have simultaneous opportunities to exercise the right of first refusal.

          Time of match confirmation will be used to determine the order by which the multiple

          shorter duration reservations will be able to exercise the right of first refusal. In the event

          the match confirmations are submitted simultaneously, the original OASIS queue time will be

          utilized to determine the order by which the multiple shorter duration reservations will be

          able to exercise the right of first refusal. After the conditional reservation deadline, service

          will commence pursuant to the terms of this Section 27A.

   (iv)   Firm HVDC Service will always have a reservation priority over Non-Firm HVDC

          Service under this Section 27A. Reservation priorities for existing firm service

          customers are provided in Section 2.2 of this Tariff.




                                                                             Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                       27A.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                          Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service Agreements:
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Firm

                       HVDC Service Agreement to an Eligible Customer when it submits a

                       Completed Application for Long-Term HVDC Service pursuant to this

                       Tariff. The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Firm

                       HVDC Service Agreement to an Eligible Customer when it first submits a

                       Completed Application for Short-Term Firm HVDC Service pursuant to

                       this Tariff. Executed HVDC Service Agreements that contain the

                       information required under this Tariff will be reported and/or filed by the

                       Transmission Provider with the Commission in compliance with

                       applicable Commission regulations. The standard form of Service

                       Agreements for Firm HVDC Service is provided in Attachment A-3 of the

                       Tariff. An Eligible Customer that uses HVDC Service at a Point of

                       Receipt or Point of Delivery that it has not reserved and that has not

                       executed a HVDC Service Agreement will be deemed, for purposes of

                       assessing any appropriate charges and penalties, to have executed the

                       appropriate Service Agreement.

                              If offered pursuant to an Agency Agreement, a Service Agreement

                       shall be executed by the Transmission Provider as agent for the relevant

                       Transmission Owner. In the event that the relevant Agency Agreement

                       terminates, the Transmission Provider will make a filing under section 205

                       of the Federal Power Act requesting that any HVDC Service offered by

                       the Transmission Provider under such a Service Agreement revert to the




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                         Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service Agreements:
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                       relevant Transmission Owner and the Transmission Provider be released

                       from all obligations and responsibilities under such Service Agreement.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          27A.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                            Obligations for Facility Additions or Redispatch Costs
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                               In cases where the Transmission Provider determines that the

                       HVDC Facilities are not capable of providing Firm HVDC Service

                       without: (1) degrading or impairing the reliability of service to

                       Transmission Customers taking Firm HVDC Service; or (2) interfering

                       with the Transmission Provider’s ability to meet prior firm contractual

                       commitments to others, the relevant Transmission Owner(s) will be

                       obligated to expand or upgrade its (their) HVDC Facilities pursuant to the

                       terms of Section 27A.3.4 of this Tariff.

                               The Transmission Customer must agree to pay the Transmission

                       Provider for any necessary transmission facility additions pursuant to the

                       terms of Section 27A.15 of this Tariff.

                               Any HVDC Facility Upgrades or Direct Assignment Facilities

                       costs to be charged to the Transmission Customer on an incremental basis

                       under this Tariff will be specified in the HVDC Service Agreement prior

                       to initiating service.




                                                                         Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                          27A.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                           Curtailment of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


          In the event that a Curtailment on the HVDC Facilities, or a portion thereof, is required to

   maintain reliable operation of such system, and the systems directly and indirectly

   interconnected with the HVDC Facilities, Curtailments will be made on a non-discriminatory

   basis to the transaction(s) that effectively relieve the constraint. The Transmission Provider may

   elect to implement such Curtailments pursuant to the Transmission Loading Relief Procedures

   specified in NERC Reliability Standards and NAESB WEQ Business Practice Standards. If

   multiple transactions require Curtailment, to the extent practicable and consistent with Good

   Utility Practice, the Transmission Provider will curtail service on a non-discriminatory basis.

          All Curtailments will be made on a non-discriminatory basis; however, Non-Firm HVDC

   Service shall be subordinate to Firm HVDC Service. Long-Term Firm HVDC Service subject to

   conditions described in Section 27A.3.4 shall be curtailed with secondary service in cases where

   the conditions apply, but otherwise will be curtailed on a pro rata basis with other Firm HVDC

   Service.

          When the Transmission Provider determines that an electrical Emergency exists on its

   Transmission System or the HVDC Facilities and implements Emergency procedures to curtail

   Firm HVDC Service, the Transmission Customer shall make the required reductions upon

   request of the Transmission Provider. However, the Transmission Provider reserves the right to

   curtail, in whole or in part, any Firm HVDC Service provided under the Tariff when, in the

   Transmission Provider’s sole discretion, an Emergency or other unforeseen condition impairs or

   degrades the reliability of its Transmission System or the HVDC Facilities. The Transmission

   Provider will notify all affected Transmission Customers in a timely manner of any scheduled

   Curtailments. In the event that the Transmission Customer fails to cease or reduce service in




                                                                           Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                          27A.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                           Curtailment of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   response to a directive by the Transmission Provider, the Transmission Customer shall pay the

   following penalties in addition to any other applicable charges: $10 per kW if the customer fails

   to curtail service within ten (10) minutes of a directive by the Transmission Provider; or $20 per

   kW if the customer fails to curtail service within twenty (20) minutes of a directive by the

   Transmission Provider.

          These charges shall apply only to the portion of the service that the Transmission

   Customer fails to curtail in response to a Transmission Provider directive. The Transmission

   Provider, where applicable, shall compensate any affected Control Areas or Generation

   Resources for their actual costs up to the amount recovered by the Transmission Provider, as

   applicable. Any revenues in excess of actual costs shall be used to reduce the Transmission

   Provider’s costs (for other than the penalized Transmission Customer) in Schedule 35.




                                                                           Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                           27A.1.6
FERC Electric Tariff                         Classification of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   i.     The Transmission Customer taking Firm HVDC Service may (1) change its Receipt and

          Delivery Points to obtain service on a non-firm basis consistent with the terms of Section

          27A.10.1 or (2) request a modification of the Points of Receipt or Delivery on a firm

          basis pursuant to the terms of Section 27A.10.2.

   ii.    The Transmission Provider shall provide firm deliveries of capacity and energy from the

          Point(s) of Receipt to the Point(s) of Delivery. Each Point of Receipt at which firm

          transmission capacity is reserved by the Transmission Customer shall be set forth in the

          Firm HVDC Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm HVDC Service along with a

          corresponding capacity reservation associated with each Point of Receipt.

          Points of Receipt and corresponding capacity reservations shall be as mutually agreed

          upon by the Parties for Short-Term Firm HVDC Service. Each Point of Delivery at

          which firm transfer capability is reserved by the Transmission Customer shall be set forth

          in the Firm HVDC Service Agreement for Long-Term Firm HVDC Service along with a

          corresponding capacity reservation associated with each Point of Delivery. Points of

          Delivery and corresponding capacity reservations shall be as mutually agreed upon by the

          Parties for Short-Term Firm HVDC Service. The greater of either (1) the sum of the

          capacity reservations at the Point(s) of Receipt or (2) the sum of the capacity reservations

          at the Point(s) of Delivery shall be the Transmission Customer’s Reserved Capacity.

          The Transmission Customer will be billed for its Reserved Capacity under the terms of

          the Schedule 7. The Transmission Customer may not exceed its firm capacity reserved at

          each Point of Receipt and each Point of Delivery.




                                                                              Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                            27A.1.6
FERC Electric Tariff                          Classification of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


          In the event that MISO identifies that a Transmission Customer’s delivered energy

          exceeds its firm reserved capacity at any Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery, the

          Transmission Customer shall pay unreserved use penalties as follows: (1) the unreserved

          use penalties shall be based on the period of unreserved use; (2) the unreserved use

          penalty for a single hour of unreserved use shall be the applicable rate for daily Firm

          HVDC Service, as set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff; and (3) more than one assessment

          for a given duration (e.g., daily) shall result in an increase of the penalty period to the

          next longest duration (e.g., weekly). Unreserved use penalties assessed using daily Firm

          HVDC Service rates shall account for off-peak and on-peak usage, as set forth in

          Schedule 7 of the Tariff. A 200% multiplier shall be applied to all assessed penalties.

          These penalty revenues shall be allocated in the manner set forth in Section 13.7 of the

          Tariff.

   iii.   Evaluation of Interchange Schedules (including Third-Party Sales by a Transmission

          Owner) against firm reserved capacity will be utilized to identify instances of unreserved

          use.




                                                                                 Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                          27A.1.7
FERC Electric Tariff       Scheduling Associated with Firm High-Voltage Direct Current
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


                       Scheduling Associated with Firm High-Voltage Direct

                       Current Service

                              Interchange Schedules for the Transmission Customer’s

                       Firm HVDC Service must be submitted in accordance with the

                       terms in Attachment J.

                              Interchange Schedules submitted after the time

                       specified in Attachment J will be accommodated, if practicable.

                       Transmission Customers shall submit all Interchange

                       Schedules electronically in a form specified by the

                       Transmission Provider. Hour-to-hour Interchange Schedules of

                       any capacity and energy that is to be delivered must be stated

                       in increments of 1,000 kW per hour and shall be subject to the

                       minimum scheduling requirements of the relevant HVDC

                       Facilities. Transmission Customers within a Transmission

                       Owner’s service (or control) area with multiple requests for

                       HVDC Service at a Point of Receipt, each of which is under

                       1,000 kW per hour, may consolidate their service requests at a

                       common Point of Receipt into units of 1,000 kW per hour for

                       scheduling and billing purposes.

                              Scheduling changes will be permitted in accordance

                       with Attachment J. However, in the event of a system

                       contingency such as a generation or an unplanned




                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          27A.1.7
FERC Electric Tariff       Scheduling Associated with Firm High-Voltage Direct Current
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


                       Transmission Outage, or Curtailment or Interruption of

                       Transmission Service, scheduling changes will be implemented

                       as soon as practicable.

                              The Transmission Provider will furnish to the

                       Delivering Party’s system operator, hour-to-hour Interchange

                       Schedules equal to those furnished by the Receiving Party and

                       shall deliver the capacity and energy provided by the

                       Delivering Party. Should the Transmission Customer,

                       Delivering Party or Receiving Party revise or terminate any

                       Interchange Schedule, such party shall immediately notify the

                       Transmission Provider, and the Transmission Provider shall

                       have the right to adjust accordingly the schedule for capacity

                       and Energy to be received and to be delivered.




                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   27A.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Nature of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                                31.0.0




                                             Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                           27A.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                             Term
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                              Non-Firm HVDC Service will be available for periods ranging

                       from one (1) hour to one (1) month. However, a Purchaser of Non-Firm

                       HVDC Service will be entitled to reserve a sequential term of service

                       (such as a sequential monthly term without having to wait for the initial

                       term to expire before requesting another monthly term) so that the total

                       time period for which the reservation applies may be greater than one

                       month, subject to the requirements of Attachment J.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           27A.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Reservation Priority
MODULES                                                                                            6.0.0


                              Non-Firm HVDC Service shall be available from transfer

                       capability in excess of that needed for reliable service to Transmission

                       Customers taking Long-Term and Short-Term Firm HVDC Service.

                              A higher reservation priority will be assigned first to Non-Firm

                       HVDC Service requests or reservations with a longer duration of service

                       than those reservations with a shorter duration and second to Pre-

                       Confirmed Requests.

                              Eligible Customers that have already reserved shorter-term service

                       have the right of first refusal to match any longer-term request before

                       being preempted. A longer-term competing request for Non-Firm HVDC

                       Service will be granted if the Eligible Customer with the right of first

                       refusal does not agree to match the competing request: (i) immediately for

                       hourly Non-Firm HVDC Service after notification by the Transmission

                       Provider; and, (ii) within twenty-four (24) hours (or earlier if necessary to

                       comply with the scheduling deadlines provided in Attachment J) for Non-

                       Firm HVDC Service other than hourly transactions after notification by

                       the Transmission Provider. When a longer duration request preempts

                       multiple shorter duration reservations, the shorter duration reservations

                       shall have simultaneous opportunities to exercise the right of first refusal.

                       Time of match confirmation will be used to determine the order by which

                       the multiple shorter duration reservations will be able to exercise the right

                       of first refusal. In the event the match confirmations are submitted




                                                                        Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                            27A.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Reservation Priority
MODULES                                                                                             6.0.0


                       simultaneously, the original OASIS queue time will be utilized to

                       determine the order by which the multiple shorter duration reservations

                       will be able to exercise the right of first refusal. After the conditional

                       reservation deadline, service will commence pursuant to the terms of this

                       Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                        27A.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                        Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service Agreements
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Non-Firm HVDC Service

   Agreement (Attachment B-1 of this Tariff) to an Eligible Customer when it first submits a

   Completed Application for Non-Firm HVDC Service pursuant to this Tariff. Executed HVDC

   Service Agreements that contain the information required under this Tariff shall be filed with the

   Commission in compliance with applicable Commission regulations.




                                                                       Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                           27A.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                       Classification of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Servi
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   Classification of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service:

          Non-Firm HVDC Service shall be offered under terms and conditions contained in

   Section 27A and other applicable provisions of this Tariff. The Transmission Provider and

   Transmission Owners undertake no obligation under this Tariff to plan the HVDC Facilities in

   order to have sufficient capacity for Non-Firm HVDC Service. Parties requesting Non-Firm

   HVDC Service for the transmission of firm power do so with the full realization that such service

   is subject to availability and to Curtailment or Interruption under the terms of this Tariff. In the

   event that MISO identifies that a Transmission Customer’s delivered energy exceeds its non-firm

   reserved capacity at any Point of Receipt or Point of Delivery, the Transmission Customer shall

   pay unreserved use penalties as follows: (1) the unreserved use penalties shall be based on the

   period of unreserved use; (2) the unreserved use penalty for a single hour of unreserved use shall

   be the applicable rate for daily Firm HVDC Service, as set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff; and

   (3) more than one assessment for a given duration (e.g., daily) shall result in an increase of the

   penalty period to the next longest duration (e.g., weekly).

          Unreserved use penalties assessed using daily Firm HVDC Service rates shall account for

   off-peak and on-peak usage, as set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff. A 200% multiplier shall be

   applied to all assessed penalties. These penalty revenues shall be allocated in the manner set

   forth in Section 13.7 of the Tariff. Non-Firm HVDC Service shall include transmission of

   Energy on an hourly basis and transmission of scheduled short-term capacity and Energy on a

   daily, weekly or monthly basis, but not to exceed one month’s reservation for any one

   Application, under Schedule 8.




                                                                                Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                         27A.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                     Classification of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Servi
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


          Evaluation of Interchange Schedules (including Third-Party Sales by a Transmission

   Owner) against non-firm reserved capacity will be utilized to identify instances of unreserved

   use.




                                                                             Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                      27A.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                   Scheduling of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service:
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                              Interchange Schedules for Non-Firm HVDC Service must be

                       submitted to the Transmission Provider in accordance with the terms in

                       Attachment J.

                              Interchange Schedules submitted after the time specified in

                       Attachment J will be accommodated, if practicable. Transmission

                       Customers shall submit all Interchange Schedules electronically in a form

                       specified by the Transmission Provider. Hour-to-hour Interchange

                       Schedules of Energy that is to be delivered must be stated in increments of

                       1,000 kW per hour and shall be subject to the minimum scheduling

                       requirements of the relevant HVDC Facilities. Transmission Customers

                       within the Transmission Owner’s service (or control) area with multiple

                       requests for HVDC Service at a Point of Receipt, each of which is under

                       1,000 kW per hour [MWh], may consolidate their schedules at a common

                       Point of Receipt into units of 1,000 kW per hour [MWh]. Scheduling

                       changes will be permitted in accordance with Attachment J.

                              The Transmission Provider will furnish to the Delivering Party’s

                       system operator, hour-to-hour Interchange Schedules equal to those

                       furnished by the Receiving Party (unless reduced for losses) and shall

                       deliver the Energy provided by the Delivering Party. Should the

                       Transmission Customer, Delivering Party or Receiving Party revise or

                       terminate any Interchange Schedule, such party shall immediately notify

                       the Transmission Provider, and the Transmission Provider shall have the




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                   Scheduling of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service:
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                       right to adjust accordingly the schedule for Energy to be received and to

                       be delivered. Schedules for Non-Firm HVDC Service for Next-Hour

                       Transmission Service must be submitted to the Transmission Provider no

                       later than twenty (20) minutes and no earlier than sixty (60) minutes

                       before the start of the schedule. Schedules submitted less than twenty (20)

                       minutes prior to the start of the schedule will be accommodated, if

                       practicable.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                    Curtailment or Interruption of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


                       Curtailment or Interruption of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct

                       Current Service:

                              The Transmission Provider reserves the right to curtail, in whole or

                       in part, Non-Firm HVDC Service provided under this Tariff for reliability

                       reasons when, an Emergency or other unforeseen condition threatens to

                       impair or degrade the reliability of the HVDC Facilities or the systems

                       directly and indirectly interconnected with the HVDC Facilities. The

                       Transmission Provider may elect to implement such Curtailments pursuant

                       to the Transmission Loading Relief Procedures specified in NERC

                       Reliability Standards and NAESB WEQ Business Practice Standards. The

                       Transmission Provider reserves the right to interrupt, in whole or in part,

                       Non-Firm HVDC Service provided under this Tariff for economic reasons

                       in order to accommodate (i) a request for Firm HVDC Service; (ii) a

                       request for Non-Firm HVDC Service of greater duration; (iii) a request

                       for Non-Firm HVDC Service of equal duration with a higher price; or (iv)

                       transmission service for Firm HVDC Service during conditional

                       curtailment periods as described in Section 27A.3.4.

                       The Transmission Provider also will discontinue or reduce service to the

                       Transmission Customer to the extent that deliveries for transmission are

                       discontinued or reduced at the Point(s) of Receipt.

                       Where required, Curtailments or Interruptions will be made on a

                       nondiscriminatory basis to the transaction(s) that effectively relieve the




                                                                         Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                          27A.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                       Curtailment or Interruption of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                       constraint; however, Non-Firm HVDC Service shall be subordinate to

                       Firm HVDC Service. If multiple transactions require Curtailment or

                       Interruption, to the extent practicable and consistent with Good Utility

                       Practice, Curtailments or Interruptions will be made to transactions

                       beginning with those transactions of the shortest term (e.g., hourly non-

                       firm transactions will be curtailed or interrupted before daily non-firm

                       transactions and daily non-firm transactions will be curtailed or

                       interrupted before weekly non-firm transactions).

                       The Transmission Provider will provide advance notice of Curtailment or

                       Interruption where such notice can be provided consistent with Good

                       Utility Practice. In the event that the Transmission Customer fails to cease

                       or reduce service in response to a directive by the Transmission Provider,

                       the Transmission Customer shall pay the following penalties in addition to

                       any other applicable charges:

                                      i.     $10 per kW if the Customer fails to curtail service

                                             within ten (10) minutes of a directive by the

                                             Transmission Provider;

                                     ii.       $20 per kW if the Customer fails to curtail service

                                               within twenty (20) minutes of a directive by the

                                               Transmission Provider; or

                                      iii.     $20 per kW if the customer fails to interrupt service

                                               at the beginning of the Hour for which the




                                                                           Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                       27A.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff    Curtailment or Interruption of Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct
MODULES                                                                      31.0.0


                             Interruption is requested; provided that the customer

                             is given a minimum of forty (40) minutes notice

                             before the beginning of such Hour; and provided

                             further that the customer may retain its service and

                             avoid the penalty by agreeing pursuant to Section

                             27A.2.2 of this Tariff to match any longer-term

                             reservation and/or higher price in a competing

                             request before being Interrupted.

                       These charges shall apply only to the portion of the service

                             that the Transmission Customer fails to curtail or

                             interrupt in response to a Curtailment or Interruption

                             directive. The Transmission Provider shall

                             compensate any affected Control Areas or generators

                             for their actual costs up to the amount recovered by

                             the Transmission Provider. Any revenues in excess

                             of actual costs shall be used to reduce the

                             Transmission Provider costs (for other than the

                             penalized Transmission Customer) in Schedule 35.




                                                         Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                            27A.3
FERC Electric Tariff               Service Availability
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            General Conditions
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider will provide HVDC Service over, on or

                       across its HVDC Facilities to any Transmission Customer that has met the

                       requirements of Section 27.A.4.1.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Determination of Available Transfer Capability
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                  A description of the Transmission Provider’s specific methodology for assessing

                        ATC posted on the Transmission Provider’s OASIS is contained in

                        Attachment C of the Tariff. In the event sufficient transfer capability may

                        not exist to accommodate a service request, the Transmission Provider

                        will respond by performing a System Impact Study.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                         Initiating Service in Absence of an Executed Agreement
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              If the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Customer

                       requesting HVDC Service cannot agree on all the terms and conditions of

                       the HVDC Service Agreement, the Transmission Provider shall file with

                       the Commission, within thirty (30) days after the date the Transmission

                       Customer provides written notification directing the HVDC Service

                       Provider to file, an unexecuted HVDC Service Agreement containing

                       terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the Transmission Provider for

                       such requested HVDC Service. The Transmission Provider shall

                       commence providing HVDC Service subject to the Transmission

                       Customer agreeing to (i) compensate the Transmission Provider at

                       whatever rate the Commission ultimately determines to be just and

                       reasonable, and (ii) comply with the terms and conditions of the Tariff

                       including posting appropriate security deposits in accordance with the

                       terms of Section 27A.5.4.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                            27A.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff           Obligation to Provide High-Voltage Direct Current Service
MODULES                                                                           30.0.0


                       If the Transmission Provider determines that it cannot

                       accommodate a Completed Application for Firm HVDC

                       Service because of insufficient capability on the HVDC

                       Facilities, the Transmission Provider and the affected

                       Transmission Owner(s) will use due diligence to expand or

                       modify the HVDC Facilities to provide the requested Firm

                       HVDC Service, consistent with its planning obligations in

                       Attachment FF of this Tariff, provided the Transmission

                       Customer agrees to compensate the Transmission Provider and

                       Transmission Owner(s) for such costs pursuant to the terms of

                       Section 27A.14 of this Tariff. The Transmission Provider and

                       the affected Transmission Owner(s) will conform to Good

                       Utility Practice and its planning obligations in Attachment FF

                       of this Tariff, in determining the need for new facilities and in

                       the design and construction of such facilities. The obligation

                       applies only to those facilities that the affected Transmission

                       Owner(s) have the right to expand or modify.




                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           27A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Deferral of Service:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider may defer providing service until it

                       completes construction of new transmission facilities or upgrades needed

                       to provide HVDC Service whenever the Transmission Provider determines

                       that providing the requested service would, without such new facilities or

                       upgrades, impair or degrade reliability to any existing firm services.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     27A.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff                  Transmission Losses on High-Voltage Direct Current Facilitie
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                       Transmission Losses on High-Voltage Direct Current Facilities:

                              Transmission losses are associated with HVDC Service. The

                       Transmission Provider is not obligated to provide transmission losses.

                       Transmission Customers taking HVDC Service are responsible for losses

                       associated with that service, as calculated by the Transmission Provider

                       in accordance with applicable business practices and procedures and

                       agreements with the applicable owner or operator of HVDC Facilities.

                       Such losses shall be apportioned to all Transmission Customers taking

                       service over HVDC Facilities in accordance with procedures developed

                       by the Transmission Provider and the owner or operator of those HVDC

                       Facilities.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.4
FERC Electric Tariff                 Responsibilities of Customers Taking High-Voltage Direct Cur
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


   Responsibilities of Customers Taking High-Voltage Direct Current Service




                                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Conditions Required of Customers Taking High-Voltage Direct
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                 Conditions Required of Customers Taking High-Voltage Direct Current
                 Service

                        HVDC Service will be provided by the Transmission Provider under this

                 Section 27A and other applicable provisions of the Tariff only if the following

                 conditions are satisfied by the Transmission Customer:

                        i.      The Transmission Customer has submitted a Completed

                                Application for HVDC Service in accordance with this Section

                                27A;

                        ii.     The Transmission Customer meets the creditworthiness criteria set

                                forth in Attachment L of this Tariff;

                        iii.    The Transmission Customer agrees to have arrangements in place

                                for any other transmission service necessary to effect the delivery

                                from the generating source to the Transmission Provider prior to

                                the time service commences;

                        iv.     The Transmission Customer agrees to pay for HVDC Service

                                Charges, and for any facilities constructed and chargeable to such a

                                Transmission Customer under this Section 27A, and the Tariff,

                                whether or not the Transmission Customer takes service for the full

                                term of its HVDC Service reservation;

                        v.      The Transmission Customer provides the information required by

                                the Transmission Provider’s planning process established in

                                Attachment FF; and

                        vi.     The Transmission Customer and the Transmission Provider have




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                             27A.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff          Conditions Required of Customers Taking High-Voltage Direct
MODULES                                                                            30.0.0


                       executed a HVDC Service Agreement pursuant to this Section

                       27A.




                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Customer Responsibility for Third-Party Arrangements
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Any scheduling arrangements that may be required by other

                       electric systems shall be the responsibility of the Transmission Customer

                       requesting HVDC Service. The Transmission Customer shall provide,

                       unless waived by the Transmission Provider, notification to the

                       Transmission Provider identifying such systems, and authorizing them to

                       schedule the capacity and energy to be transmitted by the Transmission

                       Provider pursuant to Module B of this Tariff on behalf of the Receiving

                       Party at the Point of Delivery or the Delivering Party at the Point of

                       Receipt. The Transmission Provider will undertake reasonable efforts to

                       assist the Transmission Customer in making such arrangements, including

                       without limitation, providing any information or data required by such

                       other electric system pursuant to Good Utility Practice.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                Procedures for Arranging Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Se
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


   Procedures for Arranging Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service




                                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Application:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              A request for Firm HVDC Service for periods of one year or

                       longer must contain a written Application to the Transmission Provider

                       pursuant to the schedule contained in Attachment J. All Firm HVDC

                       Service requests should be submitted by entering the information listed

                       below on the Transmission Provider’s OASIS.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Time Requirements:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Attachment J lists the time requirements applicable to when the

                       requests must be made, the evaluation of the requests, and the

                       Transmission Customer response. Requests for service received later than

                       the applicable time prior to the day service is scheduled to commence will

                       be accommodated if practicable. Requests for Firm HVDC Service that

                       are subject to no earlier than submission timelines and that are submitted

                       during the first five minutes after the time when Firm HVDC Service can

                       first be requested on the OASIS in accordance with Attachment J, will be

                       considered as if they were submitted at the same time as provided for in

                       Section 17.6 of this Tariff.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           27A.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Completed Application:
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                              A Completed Application for Firm HVDC Service shall provide all

                       of the information included at 18 C.F.R. § 2.20 of the Commission’s

                       regulations, including but not limited to the following:

                       i.     The identity, address, email address, telephone number and

                              facsimile number of the entity requesting service;

                       ii.    A statement that the entity requesting service is, or will be upon

                              commencement of service, an Eligible Customer under this Tariff;

                       iii.   The location of the Point(s) of Receipt and Point(s) of Delivery

                              and the identities of the Delivering Parties and the Receiving

                              Parties;

                       iv     The location of the Generation Resource(s) supplying the capacity

                              and Energy and the location of the Load ultimately served by the

                              capacity and energy transmitted. The Transmission Provider will

                              treat this information as confidential except to the extent that

                              disclosure of this information is required by this Tariff, by

                              regulatory or judicial order, for reliability purposes pursuant to

                              Good Utility Practice or pursuant to RTG transmission information

                              sharing agreements. The Transmission Provider shall treat this

                              information consistent with the standards of conduct contained in

                              Part 37 of the Commission’s regulations;

                       v.     A description of the supply characteristics of the capacity and

                              Energy to be delivered;




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Completed Application:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                       vi.     An estimate of the capacity and Energy expected to be delivered to

                               the Receiving Party;

                       vii.    The service commencement date and the term of the requested

                               HVDC Service;

                       viii.   The transmission capacity requested for each Point of Receipt and

                               each Point of Delivery on the HVDC Facilities. Customers may

                               combine their requests for HVDC Service in order to satisfy the

                               minimum transmission capacity requirement. The Transmission

                               Provider shall treat this information consistent with the standards

                               of conduct contained in part 37 of the Commission’s regulations;

                       ix.     A statement indicating that if the Eligible Customer submits a pre-

                               confirmed Application, then the Eligible Customer will execute a

                               HVDC Service Agreement upon receipt of notification that the

                               Transmission Provider can provide the requested HVDC Service;

                               and

                       x.      Any additional information required by the Transmission

                               Provider’s planning process established in Attachment FF.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             27A.5.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                             Deposit:
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                               A Completed Application for HVDC Service by a Transmission

                       Customer shall also include, at the discretion of the Transmission

                       Provider, a deposit of either one (1) month’s charge for Reserved Capacity

                       over the relevant HVDC Facilities for service requests of one (1) month or

                       greater, the full charge for Reserved Capacity over the relevant HVDC

                       Facilities for service requests of less than one (1) month, or a request for

                       waiver of such deposit, which request shall be accepted if the Eligible

                       Customer is found by the Transmission Provider to be creditworthy.

                               If the Application for HVDC Service is rejected by the

                       Transmission Provider because it does not meet the conditions for service

                       as set forth herein, or in the case of requests for service arising in

                       connection with losing bidders in a request for proposals (RFP), the

                       deposit will be returned with interest, less any reasonable costs incurred by

                       the relevant Transmission Provider in connection with the review of the

                       Application for HVDC Service. The deposit also will be returned with

                       interest less any reasonable costs incurred by the Transmission provider if

                       the Transmission Provider is unable to complete new facilities needed to

                       provide the service.

                               If an Application for HVDC Service is withdrawn or the Eligible

                       Customer decides not to enter into a HVDC Service Agreement, the

                       deposit will be refunded in full, with interest, less reasonable costs

                       incurred by the Transmission Provider, to the extent such costs have not




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            27A.5.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            Deposit:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                       already been recovered from the Eligible Customer. The Transmission

                       Provider will provide to the Eligible Customer a complete accounting of

                       all costs deducted from the refunded deposit, which the Eligible Customer

                       may contest if there is a dispute concerning the deducted costs. If an

                       HVDC Service Agreement is executed, any deposit, with interest, will be

                       returned to the Transmission Customer upon expiration or termination of

                       the HVDC Service Agreement. Applicable interest will be calculated in

                       accordance with Commission regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii)

                       and shall be calculated from the day the deposit is credited to the

                       Transmission Provider’s account.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.5.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Notice of Deficient Application:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                              If an Application for HVDC Service fails to meet the requirements

                       of this Tariff, the Transmission Provider will notify the entity requesting

                       service within the applicable time frame set forth in Attachment J for

                       responding to Applications. The Transmission Provider will attempt to

                       remedy minor deficiencies in the Application for HVDC Service through

                       informal communications with the Eligible Customer. If such efforts are

                       unsuccessful, the Transmission Provider will return the Application for

                       HVDC Service, along with any deposit (less the reasonable costs incurred

                       by the HVDC Service Provider, in connection with the Application for

                       HVDC Service), with interest, to the Eligible Customer. Upon receipt of a

                       new or revised Application for HVDC Service that fully complies with the

                       requirements of this Tariff, the Eligible Customer will be assigned a new

                       reservation priority consistent with the date of the new or revised

                       Application.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.5.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Response to a Completed Application:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Following receipt of a Completed Application for Firm HVDC

                       Service, the Transmission Provider shall make a determination of

                       available transfer capability as required in Section 27A.3.2 of this Tariff.

                       The Transmission Provider shall notify the Eligible Customer in

                       accordance with the time periods set forth in Attachment J either (i) if it

                       will be able to provide service without performing a System Impact Study

                       or (ii) if such a study is needed to evaluate the impact of the Application

                       pursuant to Section 27A.7.1. Responses by the Transmission Provider

                       must be made as soon as practicable to all completed applications on a

                       non-discriminatory basis.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.5.7
FERC Electric Tariff                   Execution of High-Voltage Direct Current Service Agreement:
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              Whenever the Transmission Provider determines that a System

                       Impact Study is not required and that the requested service can be

                       provided, the Transmission Provider will notify the Eligible Customer

                       consistent with the applicable time period set forth in Attachment J.

                       Where a System Impact Study is required, the provisions of Section 27A.7

                       will govern the execution of a HVDC Service Agreement. Failure of an

                       Eligible Customer to execute and return the HVDC Service Agreement or

                       request the filing of an unexecuted HVDC Service Agreement pursuant to

                       Section 27A.3.3, within the time periods set forth in Attachment J shall be

                       deemed a withdrawal and termination of the Application for HVDC

                       Service and any deposit (less the reasonable costs incurred by the

                       Transmission Provider, in connection with the Application for HVDC

                       Service) submitted will be refunded with interest. Nothing herein limits

                       the right of an Eligible Customer to file another Completed Application

                       for HVDC Service after such withdrawal and termination.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                    27A.5.8
FERC Electric Tariff                Extensions for Commencement of Firm High-Voltage Direct Curr
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


                       Extensions for Commencement of Firm High-Voltage Direct Current
                       Service:

                              The Transmission Customer can obtain, subject to availability, up

                       to five one-year extensions for the commencement of service. The

                       Transmission Customer may postpone service by notifying the

                       Transmission Provider or, as applicable, ITC, 31 days prior to the

                       commencement date of the service as initially requested and paying a non-

                       refundable annual reservation fee equal to one-month’s charge for Firm

                       HVDC Service for each year or fraction thereof within 15 days of

                       notifying the Transmission Provider it intends to extend the

                       commencement of service. If during any extension for the

                       commencement of service an Eligible Customer submits a Completed

                       Application for Firm HVDC Service, and such request can be satisfied

                       only by releasing all or part of the Transmission Customer’s Reserved

                       Capacity over the HVDC Facilities, the original Reserved Capacity over

                       the HVDC Facilities will be released unless the following condition is

                       satisfied: within thirty (30) days, the original Transmission Customer

                       agrees to pay the applicable rate for Firm HVDC Service for its Reserved

                       Capacity over the HVDC Facilities concurrent with the new HVDC

                       Service Commencement Date. In the event the Transmission Customer

                       elects to release the Reserved Capacity over the HVDC Facilities, the

                       reservation fees or portions thereof previously paid will be forfeited.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                       27A.5.8
FERC Electric Tariff   Extensions for Commencement of Firm High-Voltage Direct Curr
MODULES                                                                      30.0.0




                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                    27A.6
FERC Electric Tariff              Procedures for Arranging Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Curren
MODULES                                                                                 30.0.0


   Procedures for Arranging Non-Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service




                                                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Application:
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              Eligible Customers seeking Non-Firm HVDC Service must submit

                       a Completed Application for HVDC Service to the Transmission Provider.

                       Applications should be submitted by entering the information on the

                       Transmission Provider’s OASIS.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Completed Application:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              A Completed Application for Non-Firm HVDC Service shall

                       provide all of the information included at 18 C.F.R. § 2.20 of the

                       Commission’s regulations, including but not limited to the following:

                       i.     The identity, address, email address, telephone number and

                              facsimile number of the entity requesting service;

                       ii.    A statement that the entity requesting service is, or will be upon

                              commencement of service, an Eligible Customer under this Tariff;

                       iii.   The Point(s) of Receipt and Point(s) of Delivery;

                       iv.    The maximum amount of capacity requested at each Point of

                              Receipt and Point of Delivery;

                       v.     The proposed dates and hours for initiating and terminating HVDC

                              Service hereunder;

                       vi.    The electrical location of the initial source of the power to be

                              transmitted pursuant to the Transmission customer’s request for

                              service, and

                       vii.   The electrical location of the ultimate Load. The Transmission

                              Provider will treat this information as confidential except to the

                              extent that disclosure of this information is required by this Tariff,

                              by regulatory or judicial order, for reliability purposes pursuant to

                              Good Utility Practice or pursuant to RTG transmission information

                              sharing agreements. The Transmission Provider shall treat this

                              information consistent with the standards of conduct contained in




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Completed Application:
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                               Part 37 of the Commission’s regulations;

                       viii.   A statement indicating that if the Transmission Customer submits a

                               pre-confirmed Application, then the Eligible Customer will

                               execute a HVDC Service Agreement upon receipt of notification

                               that the Transmission Provider can provide the requested HVDC

                               Service.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.6.3
FERC Electric Tariff                 Requests and Responses for Reservation of Non-Firm High-Volt
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                       Requests and Responses for Reservation of Non-Firm High-Voltage

                       Direct Current Service



                              Attachment J lists the time requirements applicable to when the

                       requests must be made, the evaluation of the requests, and the

                       Transmission Customer response. Requests for service received later than

                       the applicable time prior to the day service is scheduled to commence will

                       be accommodated if practicable.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Determination of Available Transfer Capability:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Following receipt of a tendered schedule the Transmission

                       Provider will make a determination on a non-discriminatory basis of

                       available transfer capability pursuant to Section 27A.3.2. Such

                       determination shall be made as soon as reasonably practicable after

                       receipt, but not later than the time periods specified in Attachment J.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.7
FERC Electric Tariff                Additional Study Procedures for Firm High-Voltage Direct Cur
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


   Additional Study Procedures for Firm High-Voltage Direct Current Service Requests




                                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Notice of Need for System Impact Study:
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                               After receiving a request for HVDC Service, the Transmission

                       Provider shall determine on a non-discriminatory basis whether a System

                       Impact Study is needed. A description of the Transmission Provider’s

                       methodology for completing a System Impact Study is provided in

                       Attachment D. If the Transmission Provider determines that a System

                       Impact Study is necessary to accommodate the requested service, the

                       Transmission Provider shall so inform the Eligible Customer within the

                       times specified in Attachment J. The Transmission Provider shall within

                       thirty (30) days of receipt of a Completed Application, tender a System

                       Impact Study Agreement in the form of Attachment D-1 of this Tariff,

                       pursuant to which the Eligible Customer shall agree to reimburse the

                       Transmission Provider for performing the required System Impact Study

                       including any costs of the Transmission Owner. For a service request to

                       remain a Completed Application, the Eligible Customer shall execute the

                       System Impact Study Agreement and return it to the Transmission

                       Provider within the time provided for in Attachment J. If the Eligible

                       Customer elects not to execute the System Impact Study Agreement, its

                       application shall be deemed withdrawn and any deposit shall be returned

                       with interest.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                  27A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Notice of Need for System Impact Study:
MODULES                                                 30.0.0




                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          27A.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                             System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                       i.    The System Impact Study Agreement will clearly specify the

                             Transmission Provider’s estimate of the actual cost, and time for

                             completion of the System Impact Study. The charge shall not exceed the

                             actual cost of the study. In performing the System Impact Study, the

                             Transmission Provider shall rely, to the extent reasonably practicable, on

                             existing transmission planning studies. The Eligible Customer will not be

                             assessed a charge for such existing studies; however, the Eligible

                             Customer will be responsible for charges associated with any

                             modifications to existing planning studies that are reasonably necessary to

                             evaluate the impact of the Eligible Customer’s request for service on the

                             relevant HVDC Facilities.

                       ii.   If in response to multiple Eligible Customers requesting service in relation

                             to the same competitive solicitation, a single System Impact Study is

                             sufficient for the Transmission Provider to accommodate the requests for

                             service, the costs of that study shall be pro-rated among the Eligible

                             Customers.

                       iii. Each Transmission owner shall pay the Transmission Provider for System

                             Impact Studies that the Transmission Provider conducts on the

                             Transmission Owner’s behalf in instances where merchant employees of

                             the Transmission Owner have requested transmission service, the same as

                             any non-transmission owning customer.




                                                                           Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                27A.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff   System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement
MODULES                                                               31.0.0




                                             Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                          27A.7.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   System Impact Study Procedures:
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                        Upon receipt of an executed System Impact Study Agreement in the form

                 of Attachment D-1 of this Tariff, the Transmission Provider will use due diligence

                 to complete the required System Impact Study in coordination with the relevant

                 Transmission Owners within sixty (60) days or as soon as practicable. The

                 System Impact Study shall identify (1) any system constraints, identified with

                 specificity by transmission element or flowgate, and (2) additional Direct

                 Assignment Facilities or Network Upgrades required to provide the requested

                 service.

                        In the event that the Transmission Provider is unable to complete the

                 required System Impact Study within such time period, it shall so notify the

                 Eligible Customer and provide an estimated completion date along with an

                 explanation of the reasons why additional time is required to complete the

                 required studies. A copy of the completed System Impact Study and related work

                 papers shall be made available to the Eligible Customer as soon as the System

                 Impact Study is complete. The Transmission Provider will use the same due

                 diligence in completing the System Impact Study for an Eligible Customer as it

                 uses when completing studies for Transmission Owners.

                        The Transmission Provider shall notify the Eligible Customer immediately

                 upon completion of the System Impact Study if the HVDC Facilities will be

                 adequate to accommodate all or part of a request for service or that no costs are

                 likely to be incurred for new transmission facilities or upgrades. In order for a

                 request to remain a Completed Application, within fifteen (15) days of completion




                                                                           Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                      27A.7.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                               System Impact Study Procedures:
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


                 of the System Impact Study the Eligible Customer must execute an HVDC

                 Service Agreement or request the filing of an unexecuted HVDC Service

                 Agreement pursuant to Section 27A.3.3, or the Application shall be deemed

                 terminated and withdrawn.




                                                                       Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                          27A.7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Facilities Study Procedures:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                              If a System Impact Study indicates that additions or upgrades to

                       certain HVDC Facilities are needed to supply the Eligible Customer's

                       service request, the Transmission Provider, within thirty (30) days of the

                       completion of the System Impact Study, shall tender to the Eligible

                       Customer a Facilities Study Agreement pursuant to which the Eligible

                       Customer shall agree to reimburse the Transmission Provider and any

                       affected Transmission Owner(s) for performing the required Facilities

                       Study. For a service request to remain a Completed Application, the

                       Eligible Customer shall execute the Facilities Study Agreement in the

                       form of Attachment D-2 of this Tariff and return it to the Transmission

                       Provider within fifteen (15) days. If the Eligible Customer elects not to

                       execute the Facilities Study Agreement, its application shall be deemed

                       withdrawn and any deposit shall be returned with interest. Upon receipt of

                       an executed Facilities Study Agreement, the Transmission Provider, in

                       coordination with the appropriate Transmission Owner(s) will use due

                       diligence to complete the required Facilities Study within a one hundred

                       and twenty (120) day period.

                              If the Transmission Provider, together with the affected

                       Transmission Owner(s) is unable to complete the Facilities Study in the

                       allotted time period, the Transmission Provider shall notify the Eligible

                       Customer and provide an estimate of the time needed to reach a final

                       determination along with an explanation of the reasons that additional time




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             27A.7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Facilities Study Procedures:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                       is required to complete the study. When completed, the Facilities Study

                       will include a good faith estimate of (i) the cost of Direct Assignment

                       Facilities to be charged to the Transmission Customer, (ii) the

                       Transmission Customer’s appropriate share of the cost of any required

                       Network Upgrades as determined pursuant to Module B of this Tariff and

                       cost of HVDC Facility Upgrades to be charged to the Transmission

                       Customer, and (iii) the time required to complete such construction and

                       initiate the requested service. The Eligible Customer shall be requested to

                       provide the Transmission Provider with a letter of credit or other

                       reasonable form of security acceptable to the Transmission Provider

                       equivalent to the costs of new facilities or upgrades consistent with

                       commercial practices as established by the Uniform Commercial Code

                       unless the Transmission Provider determines that the Eligible Customer

                       already has a letter(s) of credit or other form(s) of security on file with the

                       Transmission Provider that is sufficient to cover its existing and proposed

                       obligations. Within the time set out in Attachment J, the Transmission

                       Customer shall execute a Service Agreement or request the filing of an

                       unexecuted Service Agreement and provide the required letter of credit or

                       other form of security or the request will no longer be a Completed

                       Application and shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          27A.7.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Changes in Facilities Study Assumptions
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                              Any changes to the original assumptions, considered during the

                       System Impact Study, that arise during the Facilities Study, that can

                       materially impact the results of the Facilities Study, may require the

                       Transmission Provider to re-evaluate the results of the original System

                       Impact Study. If the Transmission Provider ascertains that the changes in

                       assumptions are material modifications to the original scope of the study,

                       that could change the outcome of the Facilities Study, then the

                       Transmission Provider shall temporarily stop work on the Facilities Study

                       until the results from the re-evaluation are available. After the re-

                       evaluation results are available, the Transmission Provider will make the

                       final determination whether the initial Facilities Study should proceed

                       based on the original scope or based on the revised scope. If the scope of

                       the initial Facilities Study needs to be revised, then the Transmission

                       Provider will reset the one hundred and twenty (120) day clock to perform

                       the revised Facilities Study. The Transmission Provider will take

                       appropriate steps to communicate to the customer the revised scope and

                       schedule the revised Facilities Study.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                 27A.7.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Changes in Facilities Study Assumptions
MODULES                                                 30.0.0




                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            27A.7.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Facilities Study Modifications:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                              Any change in design arising from inability to site or construct

                       facilities as proposed will require development of a revised good faith

                       estimate. New good faith estimates also will be required in the event of

                       new statutory or regulatory requirements that are effective before the

                       completion of construction or other circumstances beyond the control of

                       the Transmission Provider or the affected Transmission Owner(s) that

                       significantly affect the final cost of new facilities or upgrades to be

                       charged to the Transmission Customer pursuant to the provisions of

                       Module B of this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     27A.7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Due Diligence in Completing New Facilities:
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider and, as applicable, the affected

                       Transmission Owner(s) shall use due diligence to add necessary facilities

                       or upgrade the HVDC Facilities within a reasonable time. The

                       Transmission Provider will not upgrade its existing or planned HVDC

                       Facilities in order to provide the requested HVDC Service if doing so

                       would impair system reliability or otherwise impair or degrade existing

                       firm service.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              27A.7.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Partial Interim Service:
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


                              If the Transmission Provider determines that it will not have

                       adequate transfer capability to satisfy the full amount of a Completed

                       Application for HVDC Service, the Transmission Provider nonetheless

                       shall be obligated to offer and provide the portion of the requested Firm

                       HVDC Service that can be accommodated without addition of any

                       facilities. However, the Transmission Provider shall not be obligated to

                       provide the incremental amount of requested Firm HVDC Service that

                       requires the addition of facilities or upgrades to the HVDC Facilities until

                       such facilities or upgrades have been placed in service.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.7.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Sections 27A.7.3 and 27A.7.4 of this Tariff require a Transmission

                       Provider to use due diligence to meet study completion deadlines for

                       System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies.

                              i.     The Transmission Provider is required to file a notice with

                              the Commission in the event that more than twenty (20) percent of

                              non-Affiliates’ System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies

                              completed by the Transmission Provider in any two consecutive

                              calendar quarters are not completed within the 60-day or 120-day

                              study completion deadlines. Such notice must be filed within

                              thirty (30) days of the end of the calendar quarter triggering the

                              notice requirement.

                              ii.    For the purposes of calculating the percent of non-

                              Affiliates’ System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies processed

                              outside of the 60-day or 120-day study completion deadlines, the

                              Transmission Provider shall consider all System Impact Studies

                              and Facilities Studies that it completes for non-Affiliates during

                              the calendar quarter. The percentage should be calculated by

                              dividing the number of those studies which are completed on time

                              by the total number of completed studies. The Transmission

                              Provider may provide an explanation in its notification filing to the

                              Commission if it believes there are extenuating circumstances that

                              prevented it from meeting the 60-day or 120-day study completion




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                    27A.7.8
FERC Electric Tariff                              Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines:
MODULES                                                                                  30.0.0


                       deadlines.

                       iii.   The Transmission Provider is subject to an operational

                       penalty if it completes ten (10) percent or more of non-Affiliates’

                       System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies outside of the 60-day

                       or 120-day study completion deadlines for each of the two calendar

                       quarters immediately following the quarter that triggered its

                       notification filing to the Commission. The operational penalty will

                       be assessed for each calendar quarter for which an operational

                       penalty applies, starting with the calendar quarter immediately

                       following the quarter that triggered the Transmission Provider’s

                       notification filing to the Commission. The operational penalty will

                       continue to be assessed each quarter until the Transmission

                       Provider completes at least ninety (90) percent of all non-

                       Affiliates’ System Impact Studies and Facilities Studies within the

                       60-day or 120-day deadline.

                       iv.    For penalties assessed in accordance with subsection (iii)

                       above, the penalty amount for each System Impact Study or

                       Facilities Study shall be equal to $500 for each day the

                       Transmission Provider takes to complete that study beyond the 60-

                       day or 120-day deadline.




                                                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                         27A.7.8
FERC Electric Tariff   Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines:
MODULES                                                       30.0.0




                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        27A.8
FERC Electric Tariff   Procedures if Unable to Complete New Facilities for Service
MODULES                                                                     30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.8.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Delays in Construction of New Facilities:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                               If any event occurs that will materially affect the time for

                       completion of new facilities, or the ability to complete them, the

                       Transmission Provider shall promptly notify the Transmission Customer.

                       In such circumstances, the Transmission Provider shall within thirty (30)

                       days of notifying the Transmission Customer of such delays, convene a

                       technical meeting with the Transmission Customer and the affected

                       Transmission Owner(s) to evaluate the alternatives available to the

                       Transmission Customer. The Transmission Provider also shall make

                       available to the Transmission Customer studies and work papers related to

                       the delay, including all information that is in the possession of the

                       Transmission Provider and affected Transmission Owner(s) that is

                       reasonably needed by the Transmission Customer to evaluate any

                       alternatives.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            27A.8.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Alternatives to the Original Facility Additions:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                              When the review process of Section 27A.8.1 determines that one

                       or more alternatives exist to the originally planned construction project,

                       the Transmission Provider together with the affected Transmission

                       Owner(s) shall present such alternatives for consideration by the

                       Transmission Customer. If, upon review of any alternatives, the

                       Transmission Customer desires to maintain its Completed Application

                       subject to construction of the alternative facilities, it may request the

                       Transmission Provider to submit a revised HVDC Service Agreement for

                       Firm HVDC Service. If the alternative approach solely involves Non-

                       Firm HVDC Service, the Transmission Provider shall promptly tender a

                       Service Agreement for Non-Firm HVDC Service providing for the

                       service. In the event the Transmission Provider concludes that no

                       reasonable alternative exists and the Transmission Customer disagrees, the

                       Transmission Customer may seek relief under the dispute resolution

                       procedures pursuant to Section 12 or it may refer the dispute to the

                       Commission for resolution.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff                             Refund Obligation for Unfinished Facility Additions
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              If the Transmission Provider and the Transmission Customer

                       mutually agree that no other reasonable alternatives exist and the

                       requested service cannot be provided out of existing capability under the

                       conditions of Module B of this Tariff, the obligation to provide the

                       requested Firm HVDC Service shall terminate and any deposit made by

                       the Transmission Customer shall be returned with interest pursuant to

                       Commission regulations 35.19a(a)(2)(iii). However, the Transmission

                       Customer shall be responsible for all prudently incurred costs by the

                       Transmission Provider through the time construction was suspended.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   27A.9
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Construction and Service on Other Utilities
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Responsibility for Third-Party System Additions:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall not be responsible for making

                       arrangements for any necessary engineering, permitting, and construction

                       of transmission or Distribution Facilities on the system(s) of any other

                       entity or for obtaining any regulatory approval for such facilities. The

                       Transmission Provider will undertake reasonable efforts to assist the

                       Transmission Customer in obtaining such arrangements, including without

                       limitation, providing any information or data required by such other

                       electric system pursuant to Good Utility Practice.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.9.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Coordination of Third-Party System Additions:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              In circumstances where the need for transmission facilities or

                       upgrades is identified pursuant to the provisions of this Section 27A, and

                       if such upgrades further require the addition of transmission facilities on

                       other systems, the affected Transmission Owner(s) in coordination with

                       the Transmission Provider shall have the right to coordinate construction

                       on its own HVDC Facilities with the construction required by others. The

                       Transmission Provider together with affected Transmission Owner(s),

                       after consultation with the Transmission Customer and representatives of

                       such other systems, may defer construction of its new transmission

                       facilities, if the new transmission facilities on another system cannot be

                       completed in a timely manner. The Transmission Provider shall notify the

                       Transmission Customer in writing of the basis for any decision to defer

                       construction and the specific problems which must be resolved before it

                       will initiate or resume construction of new facilities. Within sixty (60)

                       days of receiving written notification by the Transmission Provider of its

                       intent to defer construction pursuant to this section, the Transmission

                       Customer may challenge the decision in accordance with the dispute

                       resolution procedures pursuant to Section 12 or it may refer the dispute to

                       the Commission for resolution.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                             27A.10
FERC Electric Tariff   Changes in Service Specifications
MODULES                                           30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      27A.10.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Modifications On a Non-Firm Basis:
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              The Transmission Customer taking Firm HVDC Service may

                       request the Transmission Provider to provide transmission service on a

                       non-firm basis over Receipt and Delivery Points on HVDC Facilities other

                       than those specified in the HVDC Service Agreement ("Secondary Receipt

                       and Delivery Points"), in amounts not to exceed its firm capacity

                       reservation, without incurring an additional Non-Firm HVDC Service

                       charge or executing a new HVDC Service Agreement, subject to the

                       following conditions.

                       i.     Service provided over Secondary Receipt and Delivery Points will

                       be non-firm only, on an as-available basis, will not displace any firm or

                       non-firm service reserved or scheduled by third-parties under the Tariff or

                       by the Transmission Provider on behalf of its Native Load Customers, and

                       will be provided only on HVDC Facilities.

                       ii.    The sum of all Firm and non-firm HVDC Service provided to the

                       Transmission Customer at any time pursuant to this section shall not

                       exceed the Reserved Capacity in the relevant HVDC Service Agreement

                       under which such services are provided.

                       iii.   The Transmission Customer shall retain its right to schedule Firm

                       HVDC Service at the Receipt and Delivery Points specified in the relevant

                       HVDC Service Agreement in the amount of its original capacity

                       reservation.

                       iv.    Service over Secondary Receipt and Delivery Points on a non-firm




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.10.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Modifications On a Non-Firm Basis:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                       basis shall not require the filing of an Application for Non-Firm HVDC

                       Service under the Tariff. However, all other requirements of Section 27A

                       of the Tariff (except as to transmission rates) shall apply to transmission

                       service on a non-firm basis over Secondary Receipt and Delivery Points.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         27A.10.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Modification On a Firm Basis:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                              Any request by a Transmission Customer taking Firm HVDC

                       Service to modify Receipt and Delivery Points on a firm basis shall be

                       treated as a new request for service on HVDC Facilities in accordance

                       with Section 27A.6 hereof, except that such Transmission Customer shall

                       not be obligated to pay any additional deposit if the capacity reservation

                       does not exceed the amount reserved in the existing HVDC Service

                       Agreement. While such new request is pending, the Transmission

                       Customer shall retain its priority for service at the existing firm Receipt

                       and Delivery Points specified in its HVDC Service Agreement. Service

                       under this Section 27A.10.2 will be provided only on HVDC Facilities.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.11
FERC Electric Tariff                  Sale, Assignment, or Transfer of High-Voltage Direct Current
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


   Sale, Assignment, or Transfer of High-Voltage Direct Current Service




                                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.11.1
FERC Electric Tariff                          Procedures for Sale, Assignment or Transfer of Service:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              Subject to Commission approval of any necessary filings, a

                       Transmission Customer may sell, assign, or transfer all or a portion of its

                       rights under its HVDC Service Agreement, but only to another Eligible

                       Customer (the “Assignee”). The Transmission Customer that sells,

                       assigns, or transfers its rights under its HVDC Service Agreement is

                       hereafter referred to as the “Reseller.” Compensation to the Reseller shall

                       be at rates established by agreement between the Reseller and the

                       Assignee.

                              The Assignee must execute a service agreement with the

                       Transmission Provider governing reassignments of transmission service

                       prior to the date on which the reassigned service commences. The

                       Transmission Provider shall charge the Reseller, as appropriate, at the rate

                       stated in the Reseller’s Service Agreement with the Transmission Provider

                       or the associated OASIS schedule and credit the Reseller with the price

                       reflected in the Assignee’s Service Agreement with the Transmission

                       Provider or the associated OASIS schedule; provided that such credit shall

                       be reversed in the event of non-payment by the Assignee. If the Assignee

                       does not request any change in the Point(s) of Receipt or the Point(s) of

                       Delivery, or a change in any other term or condition set forth in the

                       original HVDC Service Agreement, the Assignee shall receive the same

                       services as did the Reseller and the transmission priority of service for the

                       Assignee shall be the same as that of the Reseller. The Assignee shall be




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.11.1
FERC Electric Tariff                          Procedures for Sale, Assignment or Transfer of Service:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                       subject to all terms and conditions of this Tariff. If the Assignee requests

                       a change in service, the reservation priority of service will be determined

                       by the Transmission Provider pursuant to section 27A.1.2 of this Tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       27A.11.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Information on Resale of Service:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   In accordance with Section 4 of this Tariff, all sales or assignments of capacity must be
   conducted through or otherwise posted on the Transmission Provider’s OASIS on or before the
   date the reassigned service commences and are subject to Section 27A.12.1. Resellers may also
   use the Transmission Provider's OASIS to post transmission capacity available for resale.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                27A.12
FERC Electric Tariff   Metering and Power Factor Correction:
MODULES                                               30.0.0




                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                    27A.12.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Transmission Customer Obligations:
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                              Unless otherwise agreed, the Transmission Customer shall be

                       responsible for the cost of installing and maintaining compatible metering

                       and communications equipment to accurately account for the Energy

                       being transmitted under this Tariff and to communicate the information to

                       the Transmission Provider. Such equipment installed on the Transmission

                       Customer’s system shall remain the property of the Transmission

                       Customer. Such equipment installed on the Transmission Owner’s system

                       shall remain the property of the Transmission Owner.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     27A.12.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                Transmission Provider Access to Metering Data:
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider or its agent shall have access to

                       metering data, which may reasonably be required to facilitate

                       measurements and billing under the Service Agreement.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        27A.13
FERC Electric Tariff                          Compensation for High-Voltage Direct Current Service:
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        Rates for Firm and Non-Firm HVDC Service are provided in the

                 Schedules appended to this Tariff: Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                 (Schedule 7); and Non-Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service (Schedule 8).

                 In addition to paying any applicable Ancillary Service costs, the Transmission

                 Customer also shall pay applicable charges under Schedule 35.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          27A.14
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Stranded Cost Recovery:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                         The Transmission Provider may seek to recover stranded costs from the

                 Transmission Customer pursuant to this Tariff in accordance with the terms,

                 conditions and procedures set forth in FERC Order No. 888. However, the

                 Transmission Provider must separately file any specific proposed stranded cost

                 charge under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            27A.15
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Compensation for New Facilities Costs
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


                        Whenever a System Impact Study performed by the Transmission

                 Provider in connection with the provision of Firm HVDC Service identifies the

                 need for new facilities, the costs of such facilities shall be recovered from the

                 Transmission Customer, as provided in the appropriate section of Attachment FF.




                                                                            Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                         27A.16
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




   [RESERVED]




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                III
FERC Electric Tariff                        NETWORK INTEGRATION TRANSMISSION SERVICE
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


   Preamble

   The Transmission Provider will provide Network Integration Transmission Service pursuant to

   the applicable terms and conditions contained in the Tariff and Service Agreement. Network

   Integration Transmission Service allows the Network Customer to integrate, economically

   dispatch and regulate its current and planned Network Resources to serve its Network Load in a

   manner comparable to that in which the Transmission Owners utilize the Transmission System to

   serve their Native Load or other Network Customers. Network Integration Transmission Service

   also may be used by the Network Customer to deliver economy Energy purchases to its Network

   Load from non-designated Resources on an as-available basis without additional charge.

   Transmission Service for sales to non-designated Loads will be provided pursuant to the

   applicable terms and conditions of Module B of this Tariff and/or any applicable ITC Rate

   Schedule.

   An ITC may provide Network Integration Transmission Service pursuant to an ITC Rate

   Schedule to the extent both the Network Loads and the Network Resources are within the ITC

   System, provided that the Network Customer has an appropriate Service Agreement with the

   Transmission Provider. Network Resources located outside of the Transmission System

   (Michigan) will be required to obtain services under Schedule 9 of this Tariff in order to import

   such Network Resource(s) to the Transmission System (Michigan). Network Customers with

   Loads and Resources physically and directly interconnected with the Transmission System

   (Michigan) may also obtain Network Integration Transmission Service under Schedule 9 -

   Michigan of this Tariff. Network Customers with Loads and Resources located both inside and

   outside (and vice versa) of the Transmission System (Michigan) may also obtain Network




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                III
FERC Electric Tariff                        NETWORK INTEGRATION TRANSMISSION SERVICE
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


   Integration Transmission Service under Schedule 9 of this Tariff. In addition, Transmission

   Service for sales to non-designated Loads that are not on the Transmission System (Michigan)

   will be provided pursuant to the applicable terms and conditions of Module B of this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   28
FERC Electric Tariff   Nature of Network Integration Transmission Service
MODULES                                                            30.0.0




                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              28.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Scope of Service
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   Network Integration Transmission Service is a Transmission Service that allows Network

   Customers to efficiently and economically utilize their Network Resources (as well as other non-

   designated Generation Resources) to serve their Network Load located in a Transmission

   Owner’s, ITC, or ITC Participant(s) Local Balancing Authority Area or pricing zone and any

   additional Load that may be designated pursuant to Section 31 of this Tariff. The Network

   Customer taking Network Integration Transmission Service must obtain or provide Ancillary

   Services pursuant to Section 3 or any applicable ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             28.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Transmission Provider Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider will plan, operate, and cause to be maintained

                 the Transmission System in accordance with Good Utility Practice and its

                 planning obligations in Attachment FF in order to provide the Network Customer

                 with Network Integration Transmission Service over the Transmission System.

                 The Transmission Owners and ITC Participants, on behalf of Native Load

                 Customers, shall be required to designate Resources and Loads in the same

                 manner as any Network Customer under Module B of this Tariff. This

                 information must be consistent with the information used by the Transmission

                 Provider to calculate available transfer capability. The Transmission Provider and

                 ITC shall include the Network Customer’s Network Load in Transmission System

                 planning and shall, consistent with Good Utility Practice and Attachment FF,

                 endeavor to cause to be constructed and placed into service sufficient transfer

                 capability to deliver the Network Customer’s Network Resources to serve its

                 Network Load on a basis comparable to the Transmission Owner(s’) and ITC

                 Participant(s’) delivery of electric generating and purchased Resources to Native

                 Load Customers.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            28.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Network Integration Transmission Service
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider and, as applicable, ITC will provide Firm

                 Transmission Service over the Transmission System to the Network Customer for

                 the delivery of Capacity and Energy from its designated Network Resources to

                 service its Network Loads on a basis that is comparable to the Transmission

                 Owner(s’) and ITC Participant(s’) use of the Transmission System to reliably

                 serve Native Load Customers.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               28.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Secondary Service
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        The Network Customer may use the Transmission System to deliver

                 energy to its Network Loads from Generation Resources that have not been

                 designated as Network Resources. Such Energy shall be transmitted, on an as-

                 available basis, with no additional charges imposed under Schedules 7, 8, or 9, or

                 the applicable ITC Rate Schedule. Secondary service shall not require the filing

                 of an Application for Network Integration Transmission Service under this Tariff.

                 However, all other requirements of Part III of this Tariff (except for transmission

                 rates) shall apply to secondary service. Deliveries from Generation Resources

                 other than Network Resources will have a higher priority than any Non-Firm

                 Point-To-Point Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff or under any

                 applicable ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            28.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Marginal Losses
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                        System Losses are associated with all Transmission Service including

                 Transmission Service associated with Grandfathered Agreements. The

                 Transmission Provider shall assess to Market Participants the Marginal Losses

                 Component of Ex Post LMP in Sections 39.2.9, 39.3.3.c.ii, 40.2.11, and 40.4.1.

                 The Transmission Provider, ITC, Transmission Owners, and ITC Participant(s)

                 are not obligated to provide Marginal Losses.




                                                                         Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                               28.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Restrictions on Use of Service
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        The Network Customer shall not use Network Integration Transmission

                 Service for (i) sales of Capacity and Energy to non-designated Loads, or (ii) direct

                 or indirect provision of Transmission Service by the Network Customer to third

                 parties. All Network Customers taking Network Integration Transmission Service

                 shall use Point-To-Point Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff for

                 any Third-Party Sale which requires use of the Transmission Provider’s

                 Transmission System except for service where the purchaser is a Network

                 Customer of the Transmission Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                  29
FERC Electric Tariff                  Initiating Service
MODULES                                           30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              29.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Condition Precedent for Receiving Service
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        Subject to the terms and conditions of Module B of this Tariff, the

                 Transmission Provider or ITC will provide Network Integration Transmission

                 Service to any Eligible Customer, provided that (i) the Eligible Customer

                 completes an Application for service as provided under Module B of this Tariff,

                 (ii) the Eligible Customer and the Transmission Provider in coordination with the

                 affected Transmission Owner(s), and ITC complete(s) the technical arrangements

                 set forth in Module B, Sections 29.3 and 29.4, (iii) the Eligible Customer executes

                 a Service Agreement pursuant to Attachment F for service under Module B of this

                 Tariff or requests in writing that the Transmission Provider file a proposed

                 unexecuted Service Agreement with the Commission, and (iv) the Eligible

                 Customer executes a Network Operating Agreement with the Transmission

                 Provider pursuant to Attachment G, or requests in writing that the Transmission

                 Provider file a proposed unexecuted Network Operating Agreement.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                          33.0.0


                        An Eligible Customer requesting service under Module B of this Tariff must

                 submit an Application, and at the discretion of Transmission Provider, a deposit

                 approximating the charge for one month of service or a request for waiver of such

                 deposit, to the Transmission Provider as far as possible in advance of the month in

                 which service is to commence. The Transmission Provider shall accept the request

                 for waiver of the deposit if the Eligible Customer is creditworthy. Unless subject to

                 the procedures in Section 2, Completed Applications for Network Integration

                 Transmission Service will be assigned a priority according to the date and time the

                 Application is received, with the earliest Application receiving the highest priority.

                 Applications should be submitted by entering the information listed below on the

                 Transmission Provider’s OASIS; however, any additional supplemental information

                 may also be requested to be provided by the Transmission Provider pursuant to the

                 Transmission Provider’s Business Practices Manuals. A Completed Application

                 shall provide all of the information included in 18 C.F.R. § 2.20 including but not

                 limited to the following:

                        (i)     The identity, address, email address, telephone number and

                                facsimile number of the party requesting service;

                        (ii)    A statement that the party requesting service is, or will be upon

                                commencement of service, an Eligible Customer under this Tariff;

                        (iii)   A description of the Network Load at each delivery point. This

                                description should separately identify and provide the Eligible

                                Customer’s best estimate of the total Loads to be served at each




                                                                             Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                              29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         33.0.0


                              transmission voltage level, and the Loads to be served from each

                              Transmission Provider substation at the same transmission voltage

                              level. The description should include a ten (10) year forecast of

                              summer and winter Load and Generation Resource requirements

                              beginning with the first year after the service is scheduled to

                              commence;

                       (iv)   The amount and location of any Interruptible Loads included in the

                              Network Load. This shall include the summer and winter Capacity

                              requirements for each interruptible Load (had such Load not been

                              interruptible), that portion of the Load subject to Interruption, the

                              conditions under which an Interruption can be implemented and

                              any limitations on the amount and frequency of interruptions. An

                              Eligible Customer should identify the amount of interruptible

                              customer Load (if any) included in the ten (10)-year Load Forecast

                              provided in response to (iii) above;

                       (v)    A description of Network Resources (current and 10-year

                              projection). For each on-system Network Resource, such

                              description shall include:

                              -      Unit size, location and amount of Capacity from that unit to

                                     be designated as Network Resource

                              -      Whether the unit is or will be an internal Resource




                                                                           Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                      29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                 33.0.0


                           -   Whether the unit is capable of receiving or responding to

                               AGC signals

                           -   Whether the unit is capable of providing Regulation

                           -   Whether the unit is capable of becoming a Spin Qualified

                                      Resource

                           -   VAR capability (both leading and lagging) of all

                               Generators

                           -   Operating restrictions

                       -       Any periods of restricted operations throughout the year

                           -   Maintenance schedules

                           -   Minimum loading level of unit

                           -   Normal operating level of unit

                           -   Any must-run unit designations required for system

                                      reliability or contract reasons

                           -   Approximate variable generating cost ($/MWH) for

                               redispatch computations

                           -   Arrangements governing sale and delivery of power to third

                               parties from generating facilities located in the MISO

                               Balancing Authority Area, where only a portion of unit

                               output is designated as a Network Resource;

                               For each off-system Network Resource, such description

                               shall include:




                                                                    Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                            29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                       33.0.0


                              -      Identification of the Network Resource as an off-system

                                     Resource

                              -      Amount of power to which the customer has rights

                              -      Identification of the Control Area from which the power

                                     will originate

                              -      Delivery point(s) to the Transmission Provider’s

                                     Transmission System

                              -      Transmission arrangements on the external transmission

                                     system(s)

                              -      Operating restrictions, if any

                              -      Any periods of restricted operations throughout the year

                              -      Maintenance Schedules

                              -      Minimum loading level of unit

                              -      Normal operating level of unit

                              -      Any must-run unit designations required for system

                                     reliability or contract reasons

                              -      Approximate variable generating cost ($/MWH) for

                                     redispatch computations;

                       (vi)   Description of Eligible Customer’s transmission system:

                              -      Load flow and stability data, such as real and reactive parts

                                     of the Load, lines, transformers, reactive devices and Load

                                     type, including normal and Emergency ratings of all




                                                                          Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                               29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                          33.0.0


                                       transmission equipment in accordance with Attachment M

                                       of the Tariff, and provided in a Load flow format

                                       compatible with that used by the Transmission Provider

                                -      Operating restrictions needed for reliability

                                -      Operating guides employed by system operators

                                -      Contractual restrictions or committed uses of the Eligible

                                       Customer’s transmission system, other than the Eligible

                                       Customer’s Network Loads and Resources

                                -      Location of Network Resources described in subsection (v)

                                       above

                                -      10-year projection of system expansions or upgrades

                                -      Transmission System maps that include any proposed

                                       expansions or upgrades

                                -      Thermal ratings of Eligible Customer’s Local Balancing

                                       Authority Area ties with other Local Balancing Authority

                                       Areas or Balancing Authority Areas; and


                       (vii)    Service Commencement Date and the term of the requested

                                Network Integration Transmission Service. The minimum term for

                                Network Integration Transmission Service is one year.

                       (viii)   A statement signed by an authorized officer from or agent of the

                                Network Customer attesting that all of the Network Resources

                                listed pursuant to Section 29.2(v) satisfy the following conditions:




                                                                            Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                                 29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                            33.0.0


                                 (1) the Network Customer owns the Resource, has committed to

                                 purchase generation pursuant to an executed contract, or has

                                 committed to purchase generation where execution of a contract is

                                 contingent upon the availability of Transmission Service under

                                 Part III of the Tariff; and (2) the Network Resources do not include

                                 any Resources, or any portion thereof, that are committed for sale

                                 to non-designated third party load or otherwise cannot be called

                                 upon to meet the Network Customer's Network Load on a non-

                                 interruptible basis, except for purposes of fulfilling obligations

                                 under a reserve sharing program; and

                         (ix)    Any additional information required of the Transmission Customer

                                 as specified in the Transmission Provider’s planning process

                                 established in Attachment FF.

          Unless the Parties agree to a different time frame, the Transmission Provider must

   acknowledge the request within ten (10) days of receipt. The acknowledgment must include a

   date by which a response, including a Service Agreement, will be sent to the Eligible Customer.

   If an Application fails to meet the requirements of this section, the Transmission Provider shall

   notify the Eligible Customer requesting service within fifteen (15) days of receipt and specify the

   reasons for such failure. Wherever possible, the Transmission Provider will attempt to remedy

   deficiencies in the Application through informal communications with the Eligible Customer. If

   such efforts are unsuccessful, the Transmission Provider shall return the Application without

   prejudice to the Eligible Customer filing a new or revised Application that fully complies with




                                                                              Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                               29.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Application Procedures
MODULES                                                                                          33.0.0


   the requirements of this section. The Eligible Customer will be assigned a new priority

   consistent with the date of the new or revised Application. The Transmission Provider shall treat

   this information consistent with the standards of conduct contained in Part 37 of the

   Commission’s regulations.




                                                                             Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                                                                            29.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Arrangements to be Completed Prior to Service
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        Network Integration Transmission Service shall not commence until the

                 Transmission Provider, the affected Transmission Owner, ITC, and the Network

                 Customer, or a third party, have completed installation of all equipment specified

                 under the Network Operating Agreement consistent with Good Utility Practice

                 and any additional requirements reasonably and consistently imposed to ensure

                 the reliable operation of the Transmission System. The Transmission Provider

                 and the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC shall exercise reasonable efforts,

                 in coordination with the Network Customer, to complete such arrangements as

                 soon as practicable taking into consideration the Service Commencement Date.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              29.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Network Customer Facilities
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        The provision of Network Integration Transmission Service shall be

                 conditioned upon the Network Customer’s constructing, maintaining and

                 operating the facilities on its side of each Delivery Point or interconnection

                 necessary to reliably deliver Capacity and Energy from the Transmission System

                 to the Network Customer. The Network Customer shall be solely responsible for

                 constructing or installing all facilities on the Network Customer’s side of each

                 such delivery point or interconnection.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           29.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Filing of Service Agreement
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                       The Transmission Provider will file Service Agreements with the

                 Commission in compliance with applicable Commission regulations.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                               30
FERC Electric Tariff                Network Resources
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             30.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Designation of Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        Network Resources shall include all generation owned, purchased or

                 leased by the Network Customer designated to serve Network Load under the

                 Tariff. Network Resources may not include Generation Resources, or any portion

                 thereof, that are committed for sale to non-designated third party Load or

                 otherwise cannot be called upon to meet the Network Customer’s Network Load

                 on a non-interruptible basis, except for purposes of fulfilling obligations under a

                 reserve sharing program. Any owned or purchased Generation Resources that

                 were serving the Network Customer’s Loads under firm agreements entered into

                 on or before the Service Commencement Date shall initially be designated as

                 Network Resources until the Network Customer terminates the designation of

                 such Generation Resources.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              30.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Designation of New Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                         The Network Customer may designate a new Network Resource by

                 providing the Transmission Provider with as much advance notice as practicable

                 and under any procedures established by the Transmission Provider. A

                 designation of a new Network Resource must be made through the Transmission

                 Provider’s OASIS by a request for modification of service pursuant to an

                 Application under Section 29. This request must include a statement that the new

                 Network Resource satisfies the following conditions: (1) the Network Customer

                 owns the Resource, has committed to purchase generation pursuant to an executed

                 contract, or has committed to purchase generation where execution of a contract is

                 contingent upon the availability of Transmission Service under Part III of this Tariff;

                 and (2) the Network Resources do not include any Resources, or any portion thereof,

                 that are committed for sale to non-designated third party Load or otherwise cannot

                 be called upon to meet the Network Customer's Network Load on a non-interruptible

                 basis, except for purposes of fulfilling obligations under a reserve sharing program.

                 The Network Customer’s request will be deemed deficient if it does not include this

                 statement and the Transmission Provider will follow the procedures for a deficient

                 application as described in Section 29.2 of this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               30.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Termination of Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


              The Network Customer may terminate the designation of all or part of a Generation

              Resource as a Network Resource by providing notification to the Transmission

              Provider through OASIS and, as appropriate, the ITC as soon as reasonably

              practicable, but not later than the firm scheduling deadline for the period of

              termination. Any request for termination of Network Resource status must be

              submitted on OASIS, and should indicate whether the request is for indefinite or

              temporary termination. A request for indefinite termination of Network Resource

              status must indicate the date and time that the termination is to be effective, and the

              identification and Capacity of the Resource(s) or portions thereof to be indefinitely

              terminated. A request for temporary termination of Network Resource status must

              include the following:

                       i.     Effective date and time of temporary termination;

                       ii.    Effective date and time of redesignation, following period of temporary

                              termination;

                       iii.   Identification and Capacity of Resource(s) or portions thereof to be

                              temporarily terminated;

                       iv.    Resource description and attestation for redesignating the Network

                              Resource following the temporary termination, in accordance with

                              Section 30.2; and

                       v.     Identification of any related Transmission Service requests to be

                              evaluated concomitantly with the request for temporary termination,

                              such that the requests for undesignation and the request for these




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                30.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Termination of Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                               related Transmission Service requests must be approved or denied as a

                               single request. The evaluation of these related Transmission Service

                               requests must take into account the termination of the Network

                               Resources identified in (iii) above, as well as all competing

                               Transmission Service requests of higher priority.

                         As part of a temporary termination, a Network Customer may only

                 redesignate the same Resource that was originally designated, or a portion

                 thereof. Requests to redesignate a different Resource and/or a Resource with

                 increased Capacity will be deemed deficient and the Transmission Provider will

                 follow the procedures for a deficient application as described in Section 29.2 of

                 the Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                30.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Operation of Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


          The Network Customer shall not operate its designated Network Resources located

   within the Midwest ISO Balancing Authority Area(s) such that the output of those facilities

   exceeds its designated Network Load, plus Non-Firm Sales delivered pursuant to Module B of

   this Tariff, plus net sales of Energy into the Energy Markets under this Tariff, plus Marginal

   Losses, plus power sales under a reserve sharing program, plus sales that permit curtailment

   without penalty to serve its designated Network Load. This limitation shall not apply to changes

   in the operation of a Transmission Customer’s Network Resources at the request of the

   Transmission Provider to respond to an Emergency or other unforeseen condition which may

   impair or degrade the reliability of the Transmission System. For all Network Resources not

   physically connected with the Transmission System, the Network Customer may not schedule

   delivery of Energy in excess of the Network Resource’s capacity, as specified in the Network

   Customer’s Application pursuant to Section 29, unless the Network Customer supports such

   delivery within the Transmission System by either obtaining Point-to-Point Transmission Service

   or utilizing secondary service pursuant to Section 28.4.

          In the event that a Network Customer’s schedule at the delivery point for a Network

   Resource not physically connected with the Transmission System exceeds the Network

   Resource’s designated capacity, excluding Energy delivered using secondary service or Point-to-

   Point Transmission Service, the Transmission Provider will assess unreserved use penalties as

   follows: (1) the unreserved use penalties shall be based on the period of unreserved use; (2) the

   unreserved use penalty for a single hour of unreserved use shall be the applicable rate for daily

   firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service, as set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff; and (3) more

   than one assessment for a given duration (e.g., daily) shall result in an increase of the penalty




                                                                                Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                               30.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Operation of Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   period to the next longest duration (e.g., weekly). Unreserved use penalties assessed using daily

   firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service rates shall account for off-peak and on-peak usage, as

   set forth in Schedule 7 of the Tariff. A 200% multiplier shall be applied to all assessed penalties.

   These penalty revenues shall be allocated in the manner set forth in Section 13.7 of the Tariff.




                                                                               Effective On: May 1, 2015
MISO                                            30.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           30.6
FERC Electric Tariff                          Arrangements for Network Resources Not Interconnected
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                         The Network Customer shall be responsible for any arrangements

                 necessary to deliver Capacity and Energy from a Network Resource not

                 physically interconnected with the Transmission System. The Transmission

                 Provider and ITC, if applicable, will undertake reasonable efforts to assist the

                 Network Customer in obtaining such arrangements, including without limitation,

                 providing any information or data required by such other entity pursuant to Good

                 Utility Practice.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           30.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Limitation on Designation of Network Resources
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        The Network Customer must demonstrate that it owns or has committed to

                 purchase generation pursuant to an executed contract in order to designate a

                 Generation Resource as a Network Resource. Alternatively, the Network

                 Customer may establish that execution of a contract is contingent upon the

                 availability of Transmission Service under Module B of this Tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                30.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Use of Interface Capacity by the Network Customer
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


             There is no specific limitation upon a Network Customer’s use of the Transmission

   System at the Interface(s) to the MISO Balancing Authority Area (where the Network

   Customer’s Load is located) to integrate the Network Customer’s Network Resources (or

   substitute economy purchases) with its Network Loads. However, a Network Customer’s use of

   the Transmission Provider’s or ITC’s total Interface capacity with other transmission systems

   may not exceed the Network Customer’s Load or the applicable Interface capacity; provided,

   however, that the usage restriction related to Load shall not limit an entity's ability to use

   Interface capacity to schedule a quantity of Energy in excess of Load to the extent such Energy is

   scheduled to meet the Network Customer's must offer requirements set forth in RAR of this

   Tariff.




                                                                               Effective On: April 26, 2026
MISO                                                                                             30.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Network Customer Owned Transmission Facilities
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


          The Network Customer that owns existing transmission facilities that are integrated with

   the Transmission System may be eligible to receive consideration either through a billing credit

   or some other mechanism. In order to receive such consideration the Network Customer must

   demonstrate that its transmission facilities are integrated into the plans or operations of the

   Transmission Provider or ITC to serve its power and transmission customers. For facilities

   added by the Network Customer subsequent to July 13, 2007, the Network Customer shall

   receive credit for such transmission facilities added if such facilities are integrated into the

   operations of the Transmission Provider’s facilities; provided however, the Network Customer’s

   transmission facilities shall be presumed to be integrated if such transmission facilities, if owned

   by the Transmission Provider, would be eligible for inclusion in the Transmission Provider’s

   annual transmission revenue requirement as specified in Attachment O. Calculation of any credit

   under this subsection shall be addressed in either the Network Customer’s Service Agreement or

   any other agreement between the Parties. This crediting provision does not apply to Network

   Customer transmission facilities that are reflected in the rates for service under this Tariff.




                                                                               Effective On: March 1, 2016
MISO                                                31
FERC Electric Tariff      Designation of Network Load
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           31.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Network Load
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        The Network Customer must designate the individual Network Loads on

                 whose behalf the Transmission Provider or ITC will provide Network Integration

                 Transmission Service. The Network Loads shall be specified in the Service

                 Agreement. Network Loads taking service under Schedule 9 – Michigan must be

                 directly interconnected with the Transmission System (Michigan) or through

                 Distribution Facilities in the Transmission System (Michigan).




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               31.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 New Network Loads
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        The Network Customer shall provide the Transmission Provider or ITC

                 with as much advance notice as reasonably practicable of the designation of new

                 Network Load that will be added to its Transmission System. A designation of

                 new Network Load must be made through a modification of service pursuant to a

                 new Application submitted using the Transmission Provider’s OASIS. The

                 Transmission Provider together with affected Transmission Owner(s) or ITC will

                 use due diligence to install any transmission facilities required to interconnect a

                 new Network Load designated by the Network Customer. The costs of new

                 facilities required to interconnect a new Network Load shall be determined in

                 accordance with the procedures provided in Module B, Section 32.4 and shall be

                 charged to the Network Customer in accordance with Commission policies.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 31.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Location of Network Loads
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


          All Network Load must meet at least one of the following location requirements:

          (a)     Network Load is physically interconnected with a Transmission Owner or ITC

   within the geographic area in which facilities subject to this Tariff are located. All Network

   Load taking service pursuant to Schedule 9 – Michigan must be physically and directly

   interconnected with the Transmission System (Michigan) or through Distribution Facilities in the

   Transmission System (Michigan).

          (b)     Network Load is not physically interconnected with a Transmission Owner or

   ITC within the geographic area in which facilities subject to this Tariff are located but meets all

   of the following conditions:

                  (i)     Non-interconnected Network Load must have been either: (1) part of a

   Transmission Owner’s bundled or native load prior to that Transmission Owner joining MISO, or

   (2) a network customer’s network load under a Transmission Owner’s or ITC’s open access

   transmission tariff in effect prior to that Transmission Owner or ITC joining MISO. The non-

   interconnected Network Load must be part of the pricing zone of that MISO Transmission Owner

   or ITC and the Network Customer must have coordinating arrangements in place with the host

   Transmission Owner or ITC for reporting of the Network Load;

                  (ii)    The non-interconnected Network Load is reported in a MISO Local

   Balancing Authority Area;

                  (iii)   The Network Customer takes Network Integration Transmission Service

   for delivery of its Network Resources or other non-designated Generation Resources to the

   Transmission Provider’s geographic area border to serve the non-interconnected Network Load;

   and




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2015
MISO                                                                                                   31.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Location of Network Loads
MODULES                                                                                              31.0.0


                  (iv)    The non-interconnected Network Load is served by firm transmission

   service on the adjacent non-MISO transmission provider’s system.

          (c)     Network Load is not physically interconnected with a Transmission Owner or ITC

   within the geographic area in which facilities subject to this Tariff are located, but is physically

   located within the boundaries of the MISO Balancing Authority Area and balanced by the MISO

   Balancing Authority. This does not include load that is Pseudo Tied into MISO Balancing

   Authority.




                                                                                 Effective On: July 19, 2015
MISO                                                                                          31.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    New Interconnection Points
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        To the extent the Network Customer desires to add a new Delivery Point

                 or interconnection point between the Transmission System and a Network Load,

                 the Network Customer shall provide the Transmission Provider and ITC with as

                 much advance notice as reasonably practicable.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              31.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Changes in Service Requests
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        Under no circumstances shall the Network Customer’s decision to cancel

                 or delay a requested change in Network Integration Transmission Service (e.g.,

                 the addition of a new Network Resource or designation of a new Network Load)

                 in any way relieve the Network Customer of its obligation to pay the costs of

                 transmission facilities caused to be constructed by the Transmission Provider or

                 ITC and charged to the Network Customer as reflected in the Service Agreement.

                 The Network Customer must provide to the Transmission Provider, via the

                 OASIS, any request to defer the start of the long term service at least 31 days

                 prior to the beginning of service. The Transmission Provider must treat any

                 requested change in Network Integration Transmission Service in a non-

                 discriminatory manner.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            31.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Annual Load and Resource Information Updates
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        The Network Customer shall provide the Transmission Provider and ITC

                 with annual updates of Network Load and Network Resource forecasts consistent

                 with those included in its Application for Network Integration Transmission

                 Service under Module B of this Tariff including, but not limited to, any

                 information provided under Section 29.2(ix) pursuant to the Transmission

                 Provider’s planning processes in Attachment FF. The Network Customer also

                 shall provide the Transmission Provider and ITC with timely written notice of

                 material changes in any other information provided in its Application relating to

                 the Network Customer’s Network Load, Network Resources, its transmission

                 system or other aspects of its facilities or operations affecting the Transmission

                 Provider’s or ITC’s ability to provide reliable service.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           32
FERC Electric Tariff                Additional Study Procedures for Network Integration Transmis
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


   Additional Study Procedures for Network Integration Transmission Service Requests




                                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            32.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Notice of Need for System Impact Study
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                        After receiving a request for service, the Transmission Provider or ITC, as

                 applicable, shall determine on a non-discriminatory basis whether a System

                 Impact Study is needed. A description of the Transmission Provider’s

                 methodology for completing a System Impact Study is provided in Attachment D.

                 If the Transmission Provider or ITC determines that a System Impact Study is

                 necessary to accommodate the requested service, it shall so inform the Eligible

                 Customer, as soon as practicable. In such cases, the Transmission Provider shall

                 within thirty (30) days of receipt of a Completed Application, tender a System

                 Impact Study agreement pursuant to which the Eligible Customer shall agree to

                 reimburse the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, for performing the

                 required System Impact Study. For a service request to remain a Completed

                 Application, the Eligible Customer shall execute the System Impact Study

                 agreement in the form of Attachment D-1 of this Tariff and return it to the

                 Transmission Provider within fifteen (15) days. If the Eligible Customer elects

                 not to execute the System Impact Study agreement, its Application shall be

                 deemed withdrawn and any deposit shall be returned with interest.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        32.2
FERC Electric Tariff                       System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


                       (i)     The System Impact Study agreement will clearly specify the

                               Transmission Provider’s or, as applicable, ITC’s estimate of the

                               actual cost, and time for completion of the System Impact Study.

                               The charge shall not exceed the actual cost of the study. In

                               performing the System Impact Study, the Transmission Provider

                               or, as applicable, ITC shall rely, to the extent reasonably

                               practicable, on existing transmission planning studies. The

                               Eligible Customer will not be assessed a charge for such existing

                               studies; however, the Eligible Customer will be responsible for

                               charges associated with any modifications to existing planning

                               studies that are reasonably necessary to evaluate the impact of the

                               Eligible Customer’s request for service on the Transmission

                               System.

                       (ii)    If in response to multiple Eligible Customers requesting service in

                               relation to the same competitive solicitation, a single System

                               Impact Study is sufficient for the Transmission Provider or, as

                               applicable, ITC to accommodate the service requests, the costs of

                               that study shall be pro-rated among the Eligible Customers.

                       (iii)   Each Transmission Owner shall pay the Transmission Provider for

                               System Impact Studies that the Transmission Provider conducts on

                               the Transmission Owner’s behalf, the same as any non-

                               Transmission Owner.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                    32.2
FERC Electric Tariff   System Impact Study Agreement and Cost Reimbursement
MODULES                                                               30.0.0




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              32.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    System Impact Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                        Upon receipt of an executed System Impact Study agreement, the

                 Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, will use due diligence to complete

                 the required System Impact Study within a sixty (60)-day period. The System

                 Impact Study shall identify (i) any system constraints, identified with specificity

                 by transmission element or flowgate, (ii) available options for installation of

                 automatic devices to curtail service (when requested by an Eligible Customer),

                 and (iii) additional Direct Assignment Facilities or Network Upgrades required to

                 provide the requested service. In the event that the Transmission Provider or ITC

                 is unable to complete the required System Impact Study within such time period,

                 it shall so notify the Eligible Customer and provide an estimated completion date

                 along with an explanation of the reasons why additional time is required to

                 complete the required studies. A copy of the completed System Impact Study and

                 related work papers shall be made available to the Eligible Customer as soon as

                 the System Impact Study is complete.

                        The Transmission Provider and ITC, as applicable, will use the same due

                 diligence in completing the System Impact Study for an Eligible Customer as it

                 uses when completing studies for Transmission Owners or ITC Participants.

                        The Transmission Provider, or ITC, as applicable, shall notify the Eligible

                 Customer immediately upon completion of the System Impact Study if the

                 Transmission System will be adequate to accommodate all or part of a request for

                 service or that no costs are likely to be incurred for new transmission facilities or

                 upgrades. In order for a request to remain a Completed Application, within




                                                                            Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                          32.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                System Impact Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


                 fifteen (15) days of completion of the System Impact Study the Eligible Customer

                 must execute a Service Agreement or request the filing of an unexecuted Service

                 Agreement, or the Application shall be deemed terminated and withdrawn.




                                                                        Effective On: August 2, 2017
MISO                                                                                                32.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Facilities Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        If a System Impact Study indicates that additions or upgrades to the

                 Transmission System are needed to supply the Eligible Customer’s service

                 request, the Transmission Provider, within thirty (30) days of the completion of

                 the System Impact Study, shall tender to the Eligible Customer a Facilities Study

                 agreement pursuant to which the Eligible Customer shall agree to reimburse the

                 Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, and any affected Transmission

                 Owner(s) for performing the required Facilities Study. For a service request to

                 remain a Completed Application, the Eligible Customer shall execute the

                 Facilities Study agreement in the form of Attachment D-2 of this Tariff and return

                 it to the Transmission Provider within fifteen (15) days. If the Eligible Customer

                 elects not to execute the Facilities Study agreement, its Application shall be

                 deemed withdrawn and any deposit shall be returned with interest.

                        Upon receipt of an executed Facilities Study agreement, the Transmission

                 Provider or ITC, as applicable, in coordination with the affected Transmission

                 Owner(s) will use due diligence to complete the required Facilities Study within a

                 one hundred and twenty (120) day period. If the Transmission Provider or, as

                 applicable, ITC together with the affected Transmission Owner(s) are unable to

                 complete the Facilities Study in the allotted time period, the Transmission

                 Provider or ITC, as applicable, shall notify the Eligible Customer and provide an

                 estimate of the time needed to reach a final determination along with an

                 explanation of the reasons that additional time is required to complete the study.

                 When completed, the Facilities Study will include a good faith estimate of (i) the




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 32.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Facilities Study Procedures
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                 cost of Direct Assignment Facilities to be charged to the Eligible Customer, (ii)

                 the Eligible Customer’s appropriate share of the cost of any required Network

                 Upgrades, and (iii) the time required to complete such construction and initiate

                 the requested service.

                        The Eligible Customer shall be requested to provide the Transmission

                 Provider with a letter of credit or other reasonable form of security acceptable to

                 the Transmission Provider, and ITC, as applicable, equivalent to the costs of new

                 facilities or upgrades consistent with commercial practices as established by the

                 Uniform Commercial Code unless the Transmission Provider determines that the

                 Eligible Customer already has a letter(s) of credit or other form(s) of security on

                 file with the Transmission Provider that is sufficient to cover its existing and

                 proposed obligations. The Eligible Customer shall have thirty (30) days to

                 execute a Service Agreement or request the filing of an unexecuted Service

                 Agreement and provide the required letter of credit or other form of security or

                 the request no longer will be a Completed Application and shall be deemed

                 terminated and withdrawn.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             32.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Changes in Facilities Study Assumptions
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0




                              Any changes to the original assumptions, considered during the

                       System Impact Study, that arise during the Facilities Study, that can

                       materially impact the results of the Facilities Study, may require the

                       Transmission Provider to re-evaluate the results of the original System

                       Impact Study. If the Transmission Provider ascertains that the changes in

                       assumptions are material modifications to the original scope of the study,

                       that could change the outcome of the Facilities Study, then the

                       Transmission Provider shall temporarily stop work on the Facilities Study

                       until the results from the re-evaluation are available. After the re-

                       evaluation results are available, the Transmission Provider will make the

                       final determination whether the initial Facilities Study should proceed

                       based on the original scope or based on the revised scope. If the scope of

                       the initial Facilities Study needs to be revised, then the Transmission

                       Provider will reset the one hundred and twenty (120) day clock to perform

                       the revised Facilities Study. The Transmission Provider will take

                       appropriate steps to communicate to the customer the revised scope and

                       schedule the revised Facilities Study.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                    32.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Changes in Facilities Study Assumptions
MODULES                                                 30.0.0




                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 32.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Penalties for Failure to Meet Study Deadlines
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


          Section 19.9 defines penalties that apply for failure to meet the sixty (60) day study

   completion due diligence deadlines for System Impact Studies and one hundred and twenty (120)

   day study completion deadlines for Facilities Studies under Part II of this Tariff. These same

   requirements and penalties apply to service under Part III of this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                  33
FERC Electric Tariff   Load Shedding, Curtailments and Manual Redispatch
MODULES                                                           30.0.0




                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             33.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Procedures
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        Prior to the Service Commencement Date, the Transmission Provider, in

                 coordination with the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC, and the Network

                 Customer shall establish Load Shedding and Curtailment procedures pursuant to

                 the Network Operating Agreement with the objective of responding to

                 contingencies on the Transmission System and on systems directly and indirectly

                 interconnected with the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System. The

                 Parties, including the affected Transmission Owner(s) and ITC, will implement

                 such programs during any period when the Transmission Provider or the ITC

                 determines that a system contingency exists and such procedures are necessary to

                 alleviate such contingency. The Transmission Provider will notify all affected

                 Network Customers, and affected Transmission Owners, and ITCs in a timely

                 manner of any scheduled Curtailment.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             33.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Transmission Constraints
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        During any period when the Transmission Provider determines that a

                 transmission constraint exists on the Transmission System, and such constraint

                 may impair the reliability of the Transmission Provider’s system, the

                 Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, will take whatever actions,

                 consistent with Good Utility Practice, that are reasonably necessary to maintain

                 the reliability of the Transmission Provider’s or the ITC system. To the extent the

                 Transmission Provider or ITC determines that the reliability of the Transmission

                 System can be maintained by redispatching Resources, the procedures in Module

                 C shall apply.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             33.3
FERC Electric Tariff                        Cost Responsibility for Relieving Transmission Constraints
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                        The cost of relieving transmission constraint is the cost of redispatch of

                 Resources pursuant to the provisions of Module C. The cost of redispatch is the

                 responsibility of Market Participants and is assessed to each Market Participant’s

                 transactions pursuant to Sections 39.3.1, 39.3.3, 40.3 and 40.4.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               33.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Curtailments of Scheduled Deliveries
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


                        If the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable, determines that it is

                 necessary to curtail scheduled deliveries, the Parties and the affected

                 Transmission Owner(s) and ITC shall curtail such schedules in accordance with

                 the Network Operating Agreement and any applicable ITC Rate Schedule or this

                 Tariff, or pursuant to the Transmission Loading Relief Procedures specified in

                 NERC Reliability Standards and NAESB WEQ Business Practice Standards .




                                                                           Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                                 33.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Allocation of Curtailments
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider shall, on a non-discriminatory basis, identify

                 and curtail transaction(s) in order to effectively relieve the constraint. However,

                 to the extent practicable and consistent with Good Utility Practice, any

                 Curtailment will be shared by the affected Transmission Owner(s), or ITC

                 Participant(s), and Network Customer in proportion to their respective Load Ratio

                 Shares. The Transmission Provider shall not direct the Network Customer to

                 curtail schedules to an extent greater than the Transmission Provider would curtail

                 the Transmission Owner’s, or ITC Participant schedules under similar

                 circumstances.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                33.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Load Shedding
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        To the extent that a system contingency exists on the Transmission System

                 and the Transmission Provider or ITC determines that it is necessary for the

                 affected Transmission Owner(s), ITC Participant(s) and the Network Customer to

                 shed Load, the Parties shall shed Load in accordance with previously established

                 procedures under the Network Operating Agreement, and any applicable ITC

                 Rate Schedule or tariff, or the ISO Agreement whichever is applicable.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                33.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   System Reliability
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Tariff, the Transmission

                 Provider reserves the right, consistent with Good Utility Practice and on a not

                 unduly discriminatory basis, to curtail Network Integration Transmission Service

                 without liability on the Transmission Provider’s or Transmission Owner’s, ITC’s,

                 or ITC Participant’s part for the purpose of making necessary adjustments to,

                 changes in, or repairs on the Transmission Owner’s and ITC’s lines, substations

                 and facilities, and in cases where the continuance of Network Integration

                 Transmission Service would endanger persons or property. In the event of any

                 adverse condition(s) or disturbance(s) on the Transmission System or on any

                 other system(s) directly or indirectly interconnected with the Transmission

                 System, the Transmission Provider, consistent with Good Utility Practice, also

                 may curtail Network Integration Transmission Service in order to (i) limit the

                 extent or damage of the adverse condition(s) or disturbance(s), (ii) prevent

                 damage to generating or transmission facilities, or (iii) expedite restoration of

                 service. The Transmission Provider will give the Network Customer as much

                 advance notice as is practicable in the event of such Curtailment.

                        a)      $10 per kW if the customer fails to respond within the required

                                response period set forth in the Network Operating Agreement; or

                        b)      $20 per KW if the customer fails to respond within a period of

                                time equal to two times the response period set forth in the

                                Network Operating Agreement. These charges shall apply only to

                                the portion of the service that the Transmission Customer fails to




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     33.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        System Reliability
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


                       curtail in response to a directive. The Transmission Provider shall

                       compensate any affected Local Balancing Authority Areas or

                       Generators for their actual costs up to the amount recovered by the

                       Transmission Provider. Any revenues in excess of actual costs

                       shall be used to reduce the Transmission Provider’s costs (for other

                       than the penalized Transmission Customer) in Schedule 10, or, in

                       the case of ITC Service, any revenues in excess of actual costs

                       shall be applied as specified in the ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                             33.8
FERC Electric Tariff                Manual Redispatch
MODULES                                        31.0.0




                       Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                            33.8.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Circumstances Requiring Manual Redispatch
MODULES                                                                                         33.0.0


          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources-Type II, Electric Storage Resources,

   or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources may be manually redispatched by the Transmission

   Provider in order to maintain the reliability of the Transmission System only in circumstances

   where automated Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market generation dispatch

   procedures set forth in Module C are inadequate to maintain reliability. Such circumstances

   arise when the five-minute dispatch process utilized in Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market operations is unable to respond.

          During these situations, the Transmission Provider may manually redispatch Generation

   Resources, Demand Response Resources-Type II, Electric Storage Resources, or Distributed

   Energy Aggregated Resources until such time as the automated Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market generation dispatch procedures set forth in Module C of this Tariff are deemed

   adequate to maintain reliable operations of the Transmission System. The circumstances that

   may require Manual Redispatch include, but are not limited to, any Transmission System

   condition that requires immediate action to avoid or mitigate system operating limit violations, or

   to avoid exceeding an interconnection reliability operational limit.

          If operational factors permit, the Transmission Provider will attempt to inform the Market

   Participant and provide it an opportunity to cure behavior that can lead to Manual Redispatch.

   Manual Redispatch may be ordered irrespective of any TLR level prevailing at the time. In the

   event that the Transmission System is experiencing conditions that exceed an interconnection

   reliability operating limit or other conditions that could lead to cascading outages of the

   Transmission System, the Transmission Provider shall implement Emergency procedures,

   pursuant to Section 40.2.20 of this Tariff.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             33.8.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Manual Redispatch Compensation and Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                          47.0.0


   As a result of following Manual Redispatch instructions, Generation Resources, Demand

   Response Resources–Type II, Electric Storage Resources, Distributed Energy Aggregated

   Resources, or External Asynchronous Resources that are manually redispatched by the

   Transmission Provider, either directly or as a Transmission Provider instruction communicated

   through a Local Balancing Authority, may not fully recover their real-time Incremental Energy

   Cost from the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP during the period the Transmission Provider has

   directed the Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources–Type II, Electric Storage

   Resources, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources, or External Asynchronous Resources to

   operate at Energy levels above the Resource’s Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, or may have

   Day-Ahead Margins eroded during the period the Transmission Provider has directed the

   Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, Electric Storage Resource,

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or External Asynchronous Resources to operate at

   Energy levels below the Resource’s Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy. In such circumstances, the

   Market Participant owning the Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource– Type II,

   Electric Storage Resource, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or External Asynchronous

   Resources shall be compensated pursuant to Schedule 27 of this Tariff only if the following

   eligibility criteria and requirements are satisfied.

   a.      A Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, Electric Storage Resource,

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or External Asynchronous Resources manually

   redispatched pursuant to this Section of this Tariff, is only eligible for Real-Time Offer Revenue

   Sufficiency Guarantee Payments (“RTORSGP”) under Schedule 27 in Hours in which it has

   been committed by the Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         33.8.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Manual Redispatch Compensation and Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                      47.0.0


   Market, or received a commitment from the Transmission Provider in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market as must-run.

   b.     A Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, Electric Storage Resource,

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or External Asynchronous Resources manually

   redispatched pursuant to this Section 33.8 is only eligible for DAMAP under Schedule 27 in

   Hours in which its Day-Ahead Margin has been eroded.

          1)     A Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, Electric Storage

                 Resource, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or External Asynchronous

                 Resources manually redispatched to zero is only eligible for DAMAP under

                 Schedule 27 in the Hours in which the resource is manually redispatched plus the

                 Hours for any applicable Minimum Down Time requirement.

          2)     A Generation Resource will also be reimbursed any start-up costs incurred to

                 return to online status after being manually redispatched to zero only to the extent

                 such costs have not been recovered through the clearing and commitment of the

                 Generation Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 and/or the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The reimbursed

                 start-up costs shall be funded through an assessment of debits on all Market

                 Participants on a pro rata basis, based on their Market Load Ratio Share.

   c.     During any period in which a Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource, and

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is Manually Redispatched, the Generation Resource,

   Electric Storage Resource, and Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource shall be exempt from

   paying Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution charges and shall be exempt from




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        33.8.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Manual Redispatch Compensation and Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                     47.0.0


   Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges under Section 40.3.4. If the period of Manual

   Redispatch includes any partial Hour, then that entire Hour will be exempt from paying Revenue

   Sufficiency Guarantee Charges and shall be exempt from Excessive/Deficient Energy

   Deployment Charges under Section 40.3.4.




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           33.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Manual Redispatch Cost Recovery
MODULES                                                                                        33.0.0


   Payments associated with Manual Redispatch will be allocated based upon the methods specified

   in Sections 40.3.5.8 and 40.3.6.6 of this Tariff.

   Payments relating to Manual Redispatch may be directly assigned to an individual Transmission

   Customer(s), or a Market Participant(s) owning any Generation Resource(s), Demand Response

   Resource(s)-Type II, Electric Storage Resource(s), or Distributed Energy Aggregated

   Resource(s), where circumstances conclusively demonstrate that the action or inaction of one or

   more such Transmission Customer(s) or Market Participant(s), in violation of a Transmission

   Provider directive and in contravention of Good Utility Practices, proximately caused the

   circumstances necessitating Manual Redispatch, provided that, prior to any such direct

   assignment of costs, the Transmission Provider must receive approval from the Commission

   pursuant to a filing under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act. The cost allocation set forth in

   the preceding paragraph shall not apply to any costs directly assigned hereunder.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               33.8.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Notice and Posting
MODULES                                                                                            34.0.0


          The Transmission Provider will notify the appropriate Market Participant(s) or its

   designee(s) with Manual Redispatch instructions to return the Transmission System within

   operating limits. Such notice will specify the nature of the occurrence giving rise to the need for

   the Manual Redispatch instruction, the times at which the Manual Redispatch is to commence

   and cease, and the MW level at which the Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource(s)-

   Type II, Electric Storage Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource shall operate

   during the period of Manual Redispatch. Each time a Generation Resource, Demand Response

   Resource(s)-Type II, Electric Storage Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is

   manually redispatched, the Transmission Provider shall promptly post afterwards on its OASIS

   the existence and nature of the conditions requiring the Manual Redispatch and the period of

   time that the Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource(s)-Type II, Electric Storage

   Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource was manually redispatched. When the

   Transmission Provider directly assigns Incremental Energy Costs pursuant to Section 33.8.3

   above and with appropriate Commission approval, the Transmission Provider shall post on its

   OASIS the entity being directly allocated Incremental Energy Costs associated with Manual

   Redispatch of a Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource(s)-Type II, Electric Storage

   Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                34
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Rates and Charges
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          The Network Customer shall pay the Transmission Provider for any Direct Assignment

          Facilities, Ancillary Services, and applicable study costs, consistent with Commission

          policy, along with the following:




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           34.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Monthly Demand Charge
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        The Network Customer, shall pay a monthly demand charge pursuant to

                 the applicable Schedule 9 which reflects its Load Ratio Share calculated on a

                 calendar year basis. The charge will be calculated by multiplying the

                 Transmission Customer’s monthly Network Load determined in accordance with

                 Module B, Section 34.2 by the applicable firm monthly zonal rate except for

                 Transmission Customer’s taking service pursuant to the provisions specified

                 under Schedule 9 – ATC.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           34.2
FERC Electric Tariff                      Determination of Network Customer’s Monthly Network Load
MODULES                                                                                      33.0.0


          A Network Customer’s monthly Network Load is its hourly Load (60 minute, Hour);

   provided, however, the Network Customer’s monthly Network Load will be its hourly Load

   coincident with the monthly peak of the pricing zone where the Network Customer’s Load is

   physically located or as otherwise located as defined in Section 31.3 (b) or (c). A Network

   Customer’s monthly Network Load shall exclude any withdrawals of Energy by Electric Storage

   Resources while providing Regulating Service or Down Ramp Capability.

          Transmission losses refer to the loss of energy during the transmission of electricity from

   generation resources to Load, which is dissipated as heat through transformers, transmission

   lines, and other transmission facilities that are under the functional control of the Transmission

   Provider. When reporting monthly network coincident peak loads to MISO for billing purposes,

   load reporting entities will adjust Network Load to account for Transmission losses in

   accordance with MISO Business Practice Manual – 012.




                                                                               Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                            34.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              34.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Redispatch Charge
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                       The Market Participant shall pay redispatch costs for their transactions in

                 accordance with Module C.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              34.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Stranded Cost Recovery
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        This Tariff, including any ITC Rate Schedule, does not affect in any way

                 the right of any Transmission Owner or ITC Participant to seek and receive

                 stranded cost recovery or the right of anyone to oppose such stranded cost

                 recovery. Thus, the Transmission Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s) may seek to

                 recover stranded costs from the User(s) in accordance with the terms, conditions

                 and procedures set forth in FERC Order No. 888. However, the Transmission

                 Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s) must separately file any specific proposed

                 stranded cost charge under Section 205 of the Federal Power Act. If the

                 Commission approves stranded cost charges to be recovered through schedules to

                 be implemented by the Transmission Provider and ITC, the Transmission

                 Provider and ITC, as agreed, shall charge and collect the appropriate charge(s)

                 from the relevant User(s) and distribute the appropriate amounts directly to the

                 relevant Transmission Owner(s) and ITC Participant(s).




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          34.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     ISO Costs
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        The Network Customer shall pay ISO costs in accordance with Schedule

                 10 or, where applicable, ITC costs pursuant to the ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                35
FERC Electric Tariff           Operating Arrangements
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          35.1
FERC Electric Tariff                              Operation Under The Network Operating Agreement
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        The Network Customer shall plan, construct, operate and maintain its

                 facilities in accordance with Good Utility Practice and in conformance with the

                 Network Operating Agreement, or, if applicable, the ITC transmission operating

                 requirements specified in the ITC Rate Schedule.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              35.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Network Operating Agreement
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        The terms and conditions under which the Network Customer shall

                 operate its facilities and the technical and operational matters associated with the

                 implementation of Module B of the Tariff shall be specified in the Network

                 Operating Agreement. For ITC, the ITC transmission operating requirements as

                 specified in the ITC Rate Schedule shall apply. The Network Operating

                 Agreement shall provide for the Parties, including the affected Transmission

                 Owner(s), to (i) operate and maintain equipment necessary for integrating the

                 Network Customer within the Transmission System (including, but not limited to,

                 remote terminal units, metering, communications equipment and relaying

                 equipment),

                        (ii) transfer data between the Transmission Provider and the Network

                 Customer (including, but not limited to, heat rates and operational characteristics

                 of Network Resources, generation schedules for units outside the Transmission

                 System, Interchange Schedules, unit outputs for redispatch required under Section

                 33, voltage schedules, loss factors and other real time data), (iii) use software

                 programs required for data links and constraint dispatching, (iv) exchange data on

                 Load Forecasts and Resources necessary for long-term planning, and (v) address

                 any other technical and operational considerations required for implementation of

                 Module B of this Tariff, including scheduling protocols.

                        The Network Operating Agreement will recognize that the Network

                 Customer shall either (i) operate as a Local Balancing Authority Area under the

                 Applicable Reliability Standard, (ii) satisfy its Local Balancing Authority Area




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            35.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Network Operating Agreement
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                 requirements, including all necessary Operating Reserve and Other Ancillary

                 Services, by contracting with the Transmission Provider and/or participating in

                 the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, or (iii) satisfy its Local Balancing

                 Authority Area requirements, including all necessary Operating Reserves and

                 Other Ancillary Services by contracting with another entity, consistent with Good

                 Utility Practice, which satisfies the Applicable Reliability Standard. The

                 Transmission Provider shall not unreasonably refuse to accept contractual

                 arrangements with another entity for Operating Reserves or Other Ancillary

                 Services; provided however, that any Operating Reserve not purchased from the

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Markets shall be self-scheduled through that

                 market consistent with the terms of Module C. The Network Operating

                 Agreement is included in Attachment G.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                            35.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               36
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Scheduling
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


          Each Network Customer and/or Market Participant shall submit an Interchange Schedule

          daily for flows consistent with the times for Energy scheduling for Firm Point-To-Point

          Transmission Service shown on Attachment J and the applicable scheduling provisions

          set forth in Module C when the associated Transmission Service Request is an

          Interchange Transaction.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                           IV
FERC Electric Tariff   APPLICABILITY TO ALL LOAD
MODULES                                     30.0.0




                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                37
FERC Electric Tariff                      Applicability
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               37.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Applicability to Transmission Owner Load
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        Each Transmission Owner and ITC Participant, to the extent it is a Load

                 Serving Entity, shall take Network Integration Transmission Service or Point-To-

                 Point Transmission Service from the Transmission Provider or ITC, as applicable,

                 in accordance with this Tariff, subject to the limitations in Section 37.3, for (1)

                 Bundled Load served by a Load Serving Entity; and (2) Load being served at

                 wholesale under a Grandfathered Agreement. Each Transmission Owner and ITC

                 Participant that is a Load Serving Entity shall enter into a service agreement(s)

                 under this Tariff with the Transmission Provider for such Transmission Service.

                 A Transmission Owner or ITC Participant, making contractual arrangements to

                 act as agent on behalf of another Transmission Owner(s) or ITC Participant with

                 Load located in the same pricing zone subject to Grandfathered Agreements, will

                 be permitted to make arrangements for Network Integration Transmission Service

                 or Point-To-Point Transmission Service with the Transmission Provider for Load

                 served by the other Transmission Owner(s) or ITC Participant.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                37.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Applicability to Other Load Serving Entities
MODULES                                                                                            6.0.0


   All other Load Serving Entities not covered under Section 37.1 shall take Network Integration

   Transmission Service or Point-To-Point Transmission Service from the Transmission Provider in

   accordance with this Tariff and shall enter into a service agreement(s) under this Tariff with the

   Transmission Provider for such Transmission Service Any Load Serving Entity serving Load in

   the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve that is found to have exceeded its capacity

   reservations under Sections 13.7, 14.5, 27A.1.6 and/or 27A.2.4 shall pay unreserved use

   penalties in accordance with Sections 13.7, 14.5, 27A.1.6 and/or 27A.2.4 as applicable.




                                                                          Effective On: January 15, 2014
MISO                                                                                         37.3
FERC Electric Tariff                              Limitations on Charges and Cost Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                       a.   Bundled Load: Transmission Owners and ITC Participants taking

                            Network Integration Transmission Service to serve their Bundled

                            Load shall not pay charges pursuant to Schedules 1, 3 through 6

                            and Schedule 9. After the Transition Period ends, beginning

                            February 1, 2008, the total Schedule 9 revenues to be distributed to

                            Transmission Owners and ITC Participants under the ISO

                            Agreement shall include the Schedule 9 charges that would be

                            payable by any Transmission Owners and ITC Participants covered

                            by the above exclusion or by a similar exclusion in a Service

                            Agreement with the Transmission Provider (“imputed revenues”).

                            In distributing Schedule 9 revenues to Transmission Owners and

                            ITC Participants, the Transmission Provider shall deduct the

                            imputed revenues attributed to each such Transmission Owner and

                            ITC Participant from the total Schedule 9 revenues that are due to

                            that Transmission Owner or ITC Participant. Notwithstanding the

                            first sentence of this section, Ameren Service Company, acting as a

                            Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service to serve

                            Ameren Energy, Inc., as agent for and on behalf of Union Electric

                            Company (d/b/a AmerenUE and Ameren Energy Generating

                            Company), for serving their Bundled Load in the State of Missouri

                            shall not pay charges pursuant to Schedule 2.1




                                                                       Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                         37.3
FERC Electric Tariff                              Limitations on Charges and Cost Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                            The Market Participant shall be financially responsible for

                            payment of the Marginal Congestion Component of Ex Post LMP

                            and Marginal Loss Component of Ex Post LMP related to their

                            transactions as specified in Sections 39.2.9, 39.3.3.c, 40.2.11, and

                            40.4.1 for those Transmission Owners and ITC Participants taking

                            Network Integration Service to serve their Bundled Load.

                            Notwithstanding the foregoing in this Section 37.3.a, the following

                            rules apply in instances in which there are multiple Transmission

                            Owners within a pricing zone or Local Balancing Authority Area.

                            Specifically, a Transmission Owner located in a pricing zone or

                            Local Balancing Authority Area with one or more other

                            Transmission Owners shall remain obligated to pay for

                            Transmission and/or Other Ancillary Services it receives within

                            that pricing zone or Local Balancing Authority Area that it does

                            not provide itself unless the transmission and/or ancillary services

                            are provided pursuant to a Grandfathered Agreement. Any

                            disputes as to the amount to be paid, or the services to be provided

                            or received shall be resolved through the ADR process set forth in

                            Section 12 of this Tariff.

                       b.   Grandfathered Agreements for Load Inside of the ISO: For the

                            Transmission Service provided as a result of or pursuant to

                            Grandfathered Agreements for Load inside of the ISO, each GFA




                                                                       Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                          37.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Limitations on Charges and Cost Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                            Responsible Entity which is a party to that Grandfathered

                            Agreement shall not be obligated to pay charges under Schedules 1

                            through 9, but it shall be responsible for Transmission Usage

                            Charges as specified in Sections 40.2.11 and 40.4.1. Each GFA

                            Responsible Entity shall remain responsible for payment of the

                            applicable Schedule 10 charges for the services taken pursuant to

                            Section 37.1 for its Load, which may include wholesale Loads

                            under Grandfathered Agreements.

                       c.   Grandfathered Agreements for Load Outside of the ISO: For

                            the Transmission Service provided as a result of or pursuant to

                            Grandfathered Agreements for Load outside of the ISO, the GFA

                            Responsible Entity shall be exempt from rates under this Tariff for

                            services provided pursuant to the existing agreements, except for

                            charges under Schedule 10, and the Transmission Usage Charge as

                            specified in Sections 40.2.11 and 40.4.1 to the Interface at the

                            boundary of the Transmission System.

                       d.   Exception to Section 37.3 (b) and (c): Notwithstanding the

                            provisions of Section 37.3(b) and (c), (i) if ancillary services are

                            not taken or provided under the Grandfathered Agreement, in

                            whole or in part, then such Ancillary Services which are not

                            provided under such Grandfathered Agreement shall be provided

                            and charged for under this Tariff; and (ii) if Marginal Losses are




                                                                        Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                         37.3
FERC Electric Tariff                              Limitations on Charges and Cost Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                            not provided or paid for under the Grandfathered Agreement, then

                            the Market Participant will be financially responsible for the

                            charges attributable to Marginal Losses as assessed for these

                            related transactions in accordance with the provisions of

                            Module C, Sections 39.3.1, 39.3.3, 40.3 and 40.5.

                       e.   Imputed Revenues Associated with Grandfathered

                            Agreements. After the Transition Period ends, beginning

                            February 1, 2008, the total Schedule 7, 8, and 9 revenues to be

                            distributed to Transmission Owners and ITC Participants under the

                            ISO Agreement shall include the Schedule 7, 8, and 9 charges that

                            would otherwise be payable by any GFA Responsible Entity

                            covered by the exclusions in Section 37.3(b) or Section 37.3(c)

                            (“GFA imputed revenues”), provided, however, that GFA imputed

                            revenues shall not include any Schedule 7, 8, and 9 charges

                            associated with a Grandfathered Agreement with respect to which

                            the revenues are reflected as a credit in the calculation of the

                            Transmission Owner’s or ITC Participant’s revenue requirement

                            pursuant to Attachment O. In distributing Schedule 7, 8, and 9

                            revenues to those Transmission Owners and ITC Participants, the

                            Transmission Provider shall deduct the GFA imputed revenues

                            attributed to each such Transmission Owner or ITC Participant




                                                                        Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                            37.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Limitations on Charges and Cost Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                               from the total Schedule 7, 8, and 9 revenues that are due to that

                               Transmission Owner or ITC Participant.




   1
       Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc., 106 FERC ¶ 61,293 (2004).




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                           37.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Grandfathered Agreements
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        Transmission provided pursuant to Grandfathered Agreements shall

                 continue according to their terms. The Grandfathered Agreements are listed in

                 Attachment P.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                              V
FERC Electric Tariff   REQUIREMENTS FOR LARGE LOAD
MODULES                                       31.0.0




                             Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 37A
FERC Electric Tariff                                Applicability of Large Load Reliability Requirements
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0

   I.     Applicability of Large Load Reliability Requirements

          The Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load shall

   be responsible for complying with each of the requirements of this Section 37A applicable to

   each Large Load it represents.

          Except as set forth in Section 37A.II, all Large Load shall be subject to the Basic Facility

   Data, Modeling, Telemetry, Forecast Data, and Audit requirements set forth in Sections 37A.1

   through 37A.4 and section 37A.8 of the Tariff.

          Except as set forth in Section 37A.II, Computational Load, shall be subject to the Phasor

   Measurement Unit, Ride-Through and Ramp requirements set forth in Sections 37A.5 through

   37A.7 of the Tariff. The Transmission Provider shall determine whether Computational Load is

   associated with a Large Load based on information provided by the Transmission Customer to

   the Transmission Provider for such purpose, as set forth in the Business Practices Manual for

   Large Load.

          A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load shall

   demonstrate its ability to effectuate compliance with each of the requirements of this Section

   37A. The Transmission Customer shall provide the Transmission Provider with documentation

   necessary for the Transmission Provider to verify compliance with the requirements of this

   Section 37A. Such documentation may include applicable agreement(s), if any, between the

   Transmission Customer and the entity or entities that own, operate or use the Large Load, or an

   attestation signed by an authorized officer of the Transmission Customer demonstrating that the

   Transmission Customer will be provided access to all information reasonably required to enable

   the Transmission Customer to comply with and for the requirements of this Section 37A,




                                                                         Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                                37A
FERC Electric Tariff                               Applicability of Large Load Reliability Requirements
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0

   including compliance with the terms of any operating protocols adopted by the Transmission

   Provider, Transmission Owner and/or the Transmission Customer for a specific Large Load.

          Failure to comply with the requirements established in this Section 37A may result in a

   delayed Service Commencement Date, a period of time needed for corrective action, operational

   limitations, or other remediation action(s) by Transmission Provider as may be necessary to

   maintain Transmission System reliability. The process by which Transmission Provider will

   determine whether any such measures are appropriate, which may include the period of time

   during which corrective action must be undertaken, shall be as set forth in the Business Practices

   Manual for Large Load.

   II.    Transition Provisions

          1)      For purposes of these transition provisions, Load associated with a transmission

                  project shall be defined as meeting the “MTEP/EPR Condition” if the project has

                  either: (a) been approved by the Transmission Provider Board in MTEP 2026, or a

                  prior MTEP; or, (b) been submitted to the Transmission Provider for Expedited

                  Project Review (EPR) on or prior to June 18, 2026, in accordance with

                  Attachment FF of the Tariff.

          2)      A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load

                  shall ensure that all Large Load shall be subject to all the requirements as set forth

                  in this Section 37A, provided that:

                  (a)    Fully Exempt Large Load:

                         A Large Load that has a Service Commencement Date on or prior to

                         December 4, 2026, shall be exempt from all requirements set forth in this

                         Section 37A with respect to the portion of the Large Load that has




                                                                          Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                               37A
FERC Electric Tariff                              Applicability of Large Load Reliability Requirements
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0

                       procured Transmission Service as of the Service Commencement Date.

                       Any modification or series of modifications to a Load that meets the

                       MTEP/EPR Condition, which results in a cumulative increase of 25 MW

                       or more in Transmission Service for such Load and with a Service

                       Commencement Date after December 4, 2026, shall be subject to

                       subsection (2)(b) below.

                 (b)   Partially Exempt Large Load:

                       (i) A Large Load, or a portion of a Large Load, that does not have a

                       Service Commencement Date prior to December 4, 2026, but that meets

                       the MTEP/EPR Condition as defined herein shall be subject to the

                       requirements set forth in Sections 37A.1 through 37A.5 and Section

                       37A.8, and shall be exempt from the requirements set forth in Sections

                       37A.6 through 37A.7.

                       (ii) A Large Load, or a portion of Large Load, that does not have a Service

                       Commencement Date prior to December 4, 2026, and that has not met the

                       MTEP/EPR Condition but has submitted Load associated with a

                       transmission project to the Transmission Provider for EPR on or after June

                       19, 2026, but on or before October 31, 2026, shall be subject to all

                       requirements set forth in this Section 37A, provided that Transmission

                       Provider may waive the requirements set forth in Section 37A.6 based

                       upon a determination that: a) exemption from such requirements would

                       not have an adverse reliability impact; and, b) compliance with such

                       requirements would result in significant costs. The Business Practices




                                                                      Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                               37A
FERC Electric Tariff                              Applicability of Large Load Reliability Requirements
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0

                        Manual for Large Load shall set forth the process and documentation

                        necessary for Transmission Provider to determine whether such criteria

                        have been met.

                 (c)    Non-Exempt Large Load:

                        A Large Load, or a portion of a Large Load, that does not meet the

                        MTEP/EPR Condition shall be subject to all applicable requirements set

                        forth in this Section 37A.

          3)     Notwithstanding any of the provisions above the Transmission Provider has the

                 right to require compliance with any or all requirements of this Section 37A if the

                 Transmission Provider determines that operation of a Large Load results in a

                 material adverse effect on Transmission System reliability. The process by which

                 Transmission Provider will make such a determination and which, if any, of the

                 requirements of this Section 37A are to be applied shall be as set forth in the

                 Business Practices Manual for Large Load.




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                            37A.1
FERC Electric Tariff                      Large Load Information and Basic Facility Data Requirements
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0

   Large Load Information and Basic Facility Data Requirements

          A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load shall

   be responsible for providing the Transmission Provider with basic information, one-line

   diagrams, and a description of the electrical characteristics of the Large Load for all Large Load

   Equipment, in the format and consistent with the timelines specified in the Business Practice

   Manual for Large Load. Any changes to the characteristics of a Large Load and/or Large Load

   Equipment, including any changes to the modeling details for the Large Load, shall be provided

   to the Transmission Provider in a timely manner, consistent with the Business Practices Manual

   for Large Load. Such changes may include, but are not limited to, Load MW amounts, firm and

   non-firm MW amounts, any dispatchable Load MWs, power factor, metering, telemetry, breaker

   configuration, staged Load additions and annual energy as further set forth in the Business

   Practices Manual for Large Load.

          A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load must

   coordinate with the Transmission Owner where the Large Load Point(s) of Withdrawal is located

   pursuant to the Transmission Provider’s load interconnection guidance and applicable NERC

   standards.




                                                                         Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                           37A.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Large Load Modeling Requirements
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0

   Large Load Modeling Requirements

          A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load shall

   provide the Transmission Provider with verified and complete electrical models of the Large

   Load, as well as detailed Load profiles, for modeled Loads, in the format and consistent with the

   timelines specified in the Business Practice Manual for Transmission Planning. Such model

   information must include sufficient detail for the Transmission Provider to evaluate system

   performance under contingency conditions in accordance with currently active versions of

   Transmission System Planning Performance Standards.

          Following completion of applicable studies and prior to the Service Commencement Date

   of the Large Load, the Transmission Customer shall submit final verified models to the

   Transmission Provider in accordance with the Business Practices Manual for Large Load. The

   Transmission Customer shall provide notice to the Transmission Provider of any material

   modifications to the Large Load and shall not implement any such proposed modifications until

   studied and approved by the Transmission Provider in accordance with the Business Practices

   Manual for Large Load.

          The final models of a Large Load shall reflect the as-built configuration and actual

   operating characteristics of the Large Load and Large Load Equipment. The Transmission

   Customer shall maintain and update models as required by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                            37A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Large Load Telemetry Requirements
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0

   Large Load Telemetry Requirements

          Prior to the later of the Service Commencement Date of a Large Load or September 1,

   2027, a Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load must

   provide real-time telemetry for the Large Load, either directly, through the applicable

   Transmission Owner, or other Transmission Provider-approved communication path, in the form

   and manner as set forth in the Business Practices Manual for Large Load.

          Individual metering will be required for all Large Load and any Generation Resource(s)

   serving such Large Load that is located behind the same Point(s) of Withdrawal to the

   Transmission System as the Large Load and meeting thresholds outlined in the Business

   Practices Manual for Large Load. All telemetry shall be provided via Inter-Control Center

   Communications Protocol (ICCP) and must meet Transmission Provider update requirements as

   specified in the Business Practices Manual for Large Load. The Transmission Customer must

   use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain telemetry availability and accuracy for the Large

   Load and must promptly correct erroneous data, bad mappings, and ICCP modeling issues.




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                          37A.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Large Load Forecast Data Requirements
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0

   Large Load Forecast Data Requirements

          Prior to the later of the Service Commencement Date of a Large Load or September 1,

   2027, a Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load must

   provide day(s) ahead and real-time Load Forecasts for a Large Load directly to the Transmission

   Provider to support the Reliability Assessment Commitment (RAC) and Security Constrained

   Economic Dispatch (SCED) processes, along with other reliability studies. The Load Forecasts

   shall be updated to reflect the most current information on the expected Demand, in accordance

   with the Business Practices Manual for Large Load.




                                                                      Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                           37A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Large Load Phasor Measurement Unit Requirements
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0

   Large Load Phasor Measurement Unit Requirements

          The Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Computational

   Load shall be subject to the Phasor Measurement Unit (PMU) requirements set forth in this

   Section 37A.5. Prior to the later of the Service Commencement Date of a Large Load or

   September 1, 2027, phasor measurement recording and communications equipment must be

   installed by the Transmission Owner, at the Transmission Customer’s expense, that is capable, at

   a minimum, of gathering phasor measurements as specified in Business Practices Manual for

   Large Load. The phasor measurement equipment must be installed at the Transmission Owner’s

   side of the Point(s) of Withdrawal and become part of the Transmission Owner interconnection

   facilities. To the extent similar quality equipment is being added or already exists, such as relays

   or digital fault recorders, that can collect data at least at the same rate as PMU and which data is

   synchronized via a high-accuracy satellite clock, such equipment may be utilized to satisfy this

   requirement if the equipment is located on the Transmission Owner’s side of the Point(s) of

   Withdrawal. Phasor measurements must be streamed in the format specified in the Business

   Practices Manual for Large Load and be provided to the Transmission Provider by the

   Transmission Owner.




                                                                          Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                          37A.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Large Load Ride-Through Requirements
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0

   Large Load Ride-Through Requirements

          A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Computational

   Load shall be responsible for ensuring that the Computational Load remains connected to the

   Transmission System and continue operation during voltage and frequency disturbances within

   the performance criteria established by the Transmission Provider in the Business Practices

   Manual for Large Load.

          Ride-through requirements apply at the Point(s) of Withdrawal and may include

   evaluation, testing, modeling, monitoring, and other compliance measures established by the

   Transmission Provider in the Business Practices Manual for Large Load.




                                                                       Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                           37A.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Large Load Ramp Requirements
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0

   Large Load Ramp Requirements

          A Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Computational

   Load shall be subject to the ramp requirements set forth in this Section 37A.7. Ramp limits shall

   be measured in aggregate across the applicable Point(s) of Withdrawal during stable-state

   transition, including any reduction/ramp smoothing provided by generation or other resources

   that meets the eligibility requirements specified in the Business Practices Manual for Large

   Load. Computational Load shall be subject to up-ramp and down-ramp limits established by the

   Transmission Provider consistent with the process set forth in the Business Practices Manual for

   Large Load. The Computational Load must have an effective up and down ramp rate not

   exceeding the specified limit outlined in the Business Practices Manual for Large Load unless

   otherwise directed by the Balancing Authority, Reliability Coordinator, or Transmission

   Operator.




                                                                        Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                                                                              37A.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Large Load Audit Rights
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0

   Large Load Audit Rights

            The Transmission Provider has the right to audit or verify the information provided by a

   Transmission Customer taking Transmission Service on behalf of a Large Load including, but

   not limited to, information related to the registration, claimed capacity, operations, modeling,

   inverter settings, metering, settlements, Large Load Equipment, and/or any other information

   related to the participation of the Large Load under this Tariff. The Transmission Customer shall

   maintain individual Large Load data and information related to the registration, Load Forecasts,

   operations, modeling, metering, and/or settlements for five (5) Years. The Transmission

   Provider shall maintain individual Large Load data and information it receives related to the

   registration, Load Forecasts, operations, modeling, metering, and/or settlements for five (5)

   Years.




                                                                         Effective On: December 4, 2026
MISO                                               MODULE C
FERC Electric Tariff   ENERGY AND OPERATING RESERVE MARKETS
MODULES                                                30.0.0




                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 INTRODUCTION
MODULES                                                                                      35.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall operate the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market to develop for all Market Participants’

   Day-Ahead Schedules, Dispatch Targets and Setpoint Instructions for Resources during the

   Operating Day. The Day-Ahead Schedules, Dispatch Targets and Setpoint Instructions will be

   developed to maximize the combined economic value of Transmission Service, Energy,

   Operating Reserves, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve,

   based on the Bids and Offers submitted. The Transmission Provider shall also make available

   Financial Transmission Rights (FTRs), which provide the FTR Holder with a hedge against

   Costs of Congestion.

    To the extent that any Transmission Facility Rating (as defined in Attachment M to this Tariff)

    is used as an input to any process or calculation associated with the Day-Ahead Energy and

    Operating Reserve Market or the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the

    Transmission Facility Rating shall utilize Ambient Adjusted Ratings (as defined in Attachment

    M to this Tariff) for such Transmission Facility Rating in accordance with the requirements of

    Attachment M to this Tariff. Additionally, the Transmission Provider shall utilize Ambient

    Adjusted Ratings as the applicable Transmission Facility Ratings for any look-ahead

    commitment process with market intervals ending in the next 10 days, including but not limited

    to Security Constrained Unit Commitment (SCUC), Security Constrained Economic Dispatch

    (SCED), Look-Ahead Commitment (LAC), and Reliability Assessment Commitment (RAC) in

    accordance with the requirements of Attachment M to this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: July 11, 2025
MISO                                           II
FERC Electric Tariff         GENERAL PROVISIONS
MODULES                                    30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                           38
FERC Electric Tariff   General Responsibilities and Requirements
MODULES                                                    30.0.0




                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  38.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Role of the Transmission Provider
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall provide all market services for the Energy and Operating

   Reserve Markets and Market Activities in accordance with the terms of this Tariff, the Business

   Practices Manuals, and related agreements.

   The Transmission Provider shall be the sole point of application for all Energy and Operating

   Reserve Markets, Markets Activities, and all Transmission Services provided in the

   Transmission Provider Region. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein is intended to

   alter in any way the existing rights and obligations of the Transmission Provider or other parties,

   including Transmission Customers, Transmission Owners, and/or Market Participants, under the

   ISO Agreement, Appendix I Agreements, and related protocols, other provisions of this Tariff or

   any other agreement.

   Section 38.1.6 of this Tariff sets forth the responsibilities of the Transmission Provider in its role

   as Reliability Coordinator, Balancing Authority, Energy and Operating Reserve Market operator,

   Transmission Service provider, and Planning Coordinator. Transmission Owner responsibilities

   are also set forth in the ISO Agreement. The Local Balancing Authorities’ rights and

   responsibilities relating to implementation of the markets are set forth in the Balancing Authority

   Agreement.

   Certain of the responsibilities described below are set forth in more detail in the ISO Agreement

   and the Balancing Authority Agreement. In the event of any conflict between this Section 38 of

   this Tariff and the ISO Agreement and/or the Balancing Authority Agreement, then the ISO

   Agreement and/or the Balancing Authority Agreement will control.




                                                                                 Effective On: May 4, 2025
MISO                                                                                               38.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Scope of Services
MODULES                                                                                            43.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall, on behalf of the Market Participants, perform the services

   pertaining to the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets specified in this Tariff, including but

   not limited to, the following.

       a. Develop and maintain rules, practices and procedures for the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

       b. Operate a Day-Ahead and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and manage

          Financial Transmission Rights.

       c. Administer the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, including: (i) identifying

          Reserve Zones within the Transmission Provider Region through Reserve Zone Studies;

          (ii) calculating Transmission Provider Region Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and Short-Term Reserve requirements; (iii) procurement of Operating

          Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve

          products; (iv) scheduling and development of Dispatch Targets and Setpoint

          Instructions; (v) accounting for Market Activities (vi) rendering bills to Market

          Participants; (vii) receiving from or disbursing to Market Participants credits or debits;

          (viii) maintaining appropriate records; and (ix) assisting in the independent monitoring

          for compliance of Market Participants’ actions in accordance with the provisions of

          Module D.

       d. Review and evaluate the qualification of entities seeking status as Market Participants

          pursuant to Section 38.2.2.

       e. Coordinate maintenance schedules for Generation Resources and approve, coordinate and

          reschedule as necessary, Planned Transmission Outages operated within the Transmission




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                38.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Scope of Services
MODULES                                                                                             43.0.0


          Provider Region.

       f. Determine and declare that an Emergency is expected to exist, exists, or ceases to exist,

          in all or any part of the MISO Balancing Authority Area, consistent with Good Utility

          Practice and serve as a primary point of contact for interested local, state, or federal

          agencies concerning such Emergencies.

       g. Direct and coordinate arrangements for (i) the transfer of Energy during conditions

          constituting an Emergency in the MISO Balancing Authority Area or in an adjacent

          Balancing Authority, and the mutual provision of other support in such Emergency

          conditions with other interconnected Balancing Authorities; and (ii) coordinate and direct

          purchases of Emergency Energy offered by Market Participants during conditions

          constituting an Emergency in the MISO Balancing Authority Area.

       h. Coordinate the Curtailment of Load, instruct Load Shedding, or other measures

          appropriate to alleviate an Emergency, to preserve reliability in the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area in accordance with ERO standards, or applicable Regional Entity

          standards, and to ensure the operation of the facilities within the MISO Balancing

          Authority Area in accordance with Good Utility Practice, this Tariff and the Business

          Practices Manuals.

       i. Protect Confidential Information as specified in Section 38.9.

       j. Implement and maintain the Commercial Pricing Nodes for Load and Resources that

          comprise Hubs, Zones and Interfaces, and modify each to meet the needs of Market

          Participants.

       k. Receive and maintain data and information relating to the operations of generation




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Scope of Services
MODULES                                                                                           43.0.0


          (including Electric Storage Resources), demand response, and transmission facilities in

          the Transmission Provider Region as may be necessary or appropriate to operate the

          Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

       l. Maintain records of all transmission facility ratings. The Transmission Provider may

          review any submitted change or any submitted procedure for pre-established transmission

          facility rating changes.

       m. Develop and maintain the Network Model.

       n. Develop and maintain the Commercial Model.

       o. Coordinate with Local Balancing Authority operators to implement the dispatch of

          Resources reliably.

       p. Manage physical and Financial Schedules submitted by Market Participants.

       q. Coordinate and interface with the Independent Market Monitor.

       r. Develop and manage the Market Portal.

       s. Respond to and resolve inquiries by Market Participants regarding Market Activities.

       t. Conduct inter-regional coordination.

       u. Develop, maintain and manage procedures for credit risk exposure.

       v. Ensure the Transmission Provider’s Security Constrained Economic Dispatch and the

          Security Constrained Unit Commitment processes manage the Transmission System

          within reliability constraints and make a good faith effort to mitigate congestion within

          the Transmission Provider Region.

       w. Perform a regional Security Constrained Economic Dispatch that dispatches Resources to

          simultaneously balance Load, generation and schedules, and manage congestion at five




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            38.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Scope of Services
MODULES                                                                                         43.0.0


          (5) minute intervals.

       x. Issue Day-Ahead Schedules resulting from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market clearing process, pursuant to Section 39.2.9, and Setpoint Instructions

          resulting from its Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market clearing, pursuant to

          Section 40.2.7.

       y. Develop and send Dispatch Targets for each Resource to Market Participants based on

          Offers to the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                      Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Records and Reports
MODULES                                                                                           34.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall prepare and maintain such records and prepare such

   reports, including, but not limited to, quarterly budget reports, as are required to document the

   performance of its obligations to Market Participants, Transmission Customers, and Local

   Balancing Authority operators hereunder in a form adopted by the Transmission Provider. The

   Transmission Provider shall also produce special reports reasonably requested by Market

   Participants and consistent with the Commission’s standards of conduct; provided, however, an

   entity requesting any such special reports shall reimburse the Transmission Provider for the costs

   of producing such reports. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Transmission Provider shall

   comply with the confidentiality provisions of Section 38.9 with respect to Confidential

   Information contained in any such report.



   A.     Zonal Uplift Report

          The Transmission Provider shall prepare a monthly Zonal Uplift Report. The monthly

          Zonal Uplift Report must be posted by the Transmission Provider within 20 calendar

          days from the end of the month. The Transmission Provider shall post the Zonal Uplift

          Report on the public website, in a machine-readable format.



          The Zonal Uplift Report shall utilize Local Resource Zones for geographic reporting. In

          the event that a Local Resource Zone may have less than four Resources in a given day,

          the Zonal Uplift Report may include an aggregation of Local Resource Zones. The

          aggregation, to the extent necessary, would be to one or more neighboring Local

          Resource Zones, should a Local Resource Zone have less than four Resources.




                                                                                Effective On: July 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                            38.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Records and Reports
MODULES                                                                                         34.0.0


          Notwithstanding the foregoing, resources with dispatchable Import Schedules into MISO

          will be reported on an Interface basis, rather than a Local Resource Zone basis.



          The Zonal Uplift Report must identify the cause of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency

          Guarantee Credits, Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Day-Ahead

          Margin Assurance Payments, and Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

          Payments. The Transmission Provider shall identify the cause of Day-Ahead Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Day-

          Ahead Margin Assurance Payments, and Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency

          Guarantee Payments by utilizing existing Resource commitment reasons. The Zonal

          Uplift Report will identify total daily Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

          Credits, Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Day-Ahead Margin

          Assurance Payments, and Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments, in

          dollars, in each category paid to the Resources in each Local Resource Zone.



   B.     Resource-Specific Uplift Report

          The Transmission Provider shall prepare a monthly Resource-Specific Uplift Report.

          The monthly Resource-Specific Uplift Report must be posted by the Transmission

          Provider within 90 calendar days from the end of the month. The Transmission Provider

          shall post the Resource-Specific Uplift Report on the public website, in a machine-

          readable format.




                                                                              Effective On: July 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                         38.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Records and Reports
MODULES                                                                                      34.0.0


          The Resource-Specific Uplift Report shall include the Resource name and the

          corresponding amount of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Real-Time

          Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, Day-Ahead Margin Assurance Payments, and

          Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments paid, summed together for

          the month, to the Resource.



   C.     Operator-Initiated Commitment Report

          The Transmission Provider shall prepare a monthly Operator-Initiated Commitment

          Report. The monthly Operator-Initiated Commitment Report must be posted by the

          Transmission Provider within 30 calendar days from the end of the month. The

          Transmission Provider shall post the Operator-Initiated Commitment Report on the

          public website, in a machine-readable format.



          The Operator-Initiated Commitment Report shall include any commitments made after

          the Day-Ahead Market (e.g. Forward Reliability Assessment Commitments, Intra-Day

          Reliability Assessment Commitments, and Look-Ahead Commitments), including both

          manual and automated commitments that occur for any reason other than minimizing the

          total production costs associated with serving load.



          Each Operator-Initiated Commitment Report shall include the size of each commitment

          and the commitment start time. The size will be measured by using a Resource’s

          economic maximum, which reflects the upper economic operating limit of a committed




                                                                          Effective On: July 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                         38.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Records and Reports
MODULES                                                                                      34.0.0


          Resource. The commitment will be measured in megawatts. The Operator-Initiated

          Commitment Report shall utilize Local Resource Zones for geographic reporting. The

          Operator-Initiated Commitment Report must include one of the following reasons for

          each Resource commitment:

                 System-wide capacity

                 Constraint management

                 Voltage Support




                                                                          Effective On: July 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                              38.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Informational and Reporting Requirements
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall operate and maintain a Market Portal and an internet webpage

   that will facilitate: (i) the submission of Offers and Bids by Market Participants; and (ii) the

   posting, by the Transmission Provider, of LMPs, MCPs and market clearing results for accepted

   Bids and Offers. The Market Portal or internet webpage shall provide historical data regarding

   market clearing activities, in accordance with Commission policies. The Market Portal or

   internet webpage shall also provide a platform for Market Participants to purchase and sell FTRs,

   submit FTR Bids and FTR Offers, and shall report the results of FTR Auctions pursuant to

   sections 44.1 and 45.1 of this Tariff.




                                                                             Effective On: March 15, 2016
MISO                                                                                              38.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           Recording
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Subject to the provisions of applicable local, state, or federal law, all voice communications with

   the Transmission Provider may be recorded by the Transmission Provider. By qualifying as a

   Market Participant, a Market Participant expressly consents to such recordings. Further, any

   entity acting on behalf of a Market Participant, by virtue of undertaking action on behalf of one

   (1) or more Market Participants, including but not limited to, a Scheduling Agent or Meter Data

   and Management Agent (MDMA), expressly consents to such recordings.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              38.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Business Practices Manuals
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall prepare, maintain, promulgate, and update the Business

   Practices Manuals as they relate to the operation of the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

   The Business Practices Manuals shall conform and comply with this Tariff, and the Applicable

   Reliability Standards. The Business Practices Manuals shall be designed to facilitate

   administration of efficient Energy and Operating Reserve Markets within industry reliability

   standards and the physical capabilities of the facilities located within the Transmission Provider

   Region. The Business Practices Manuals are available for reference, through the Transmission

   Provider’s internet website.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.1.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Responsibilities of the Transmission Provider
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider, in its role as the Reliability Coordinator, Balancing Authority,

   Transmission Service provider, and Planning Coordinator, shall act in compliance with and

   perform the functions required by the Applicable Reliability Standards.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               38.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Market Participants
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   An entity may qualify as a Market Participant pursuant to the requirements specified herein.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         38.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                           Market Participant General Rights and Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              A Market Participant may participate in all Market Activities. The

                       Market Participant shall settle with the Transmission Provider for all

                       credits and debits associated with these Market Activities. A Market

                       Participant may designate a Scheduling Agent to conduct scheduling

                       activities and/or a MDMA to conduct metering activities and/or Billing

                       Agent to conduct settlement activities on its behalf. The Market

                       Participant, however, ultimately remains financially liable for, and shall

                       settle, all such Market Activities with the Transmission Provider.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               38.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Market Participant Application and Qualifications
MODULES                                                                                            43.0.0


   To qualify as a Market Participant, a Market Participant Applicant shall fulfill the following

   requirements.

   a.     Submit a duly executed Market Participant Application to the Transmission Provider, in

          such form as shall be established by the Transmission Provider.

          i.       A Market Participant Applicant shall not qualify as a Market Participant until the

                   Transmission Provider has duly executed a Market Participant Agreement that has

                   previously been duly executed by the Market Participant Applicant.

          ii.      Notwithstanding any information provided to the Transmission Provider prior to

                   the submission of the Market Participant Application, the Market Participant

                   Applicant must provide all information required in the Market Participant

                   Application.

   b.     Demonstrate to the Transmission Provider that it or its Designated Agent complies with

          all applicable metering, telemetry, data storage and transmission, and other reliability,

          operation, planning and accounting standards and requirements for operating in the

          Transmission Provider Region as set forth in this Tariff.

          i.       A Market Participant Applicant that intends to assign to a Scheduling Agent, an

                   MDMA, or other Market Participant certain Markets Activities shall demonstrate

                   to the Transmission Provider’s satisfaction that it has assigned these

                   responsibilities to a qualified Designated Agent by forwarding to the

                   Transmission Provider a certificate that represents the underlying relationship

                   between the Market Participant and the Designated Agent. In the event an entity

                   other than the Local Balancing Authority is designated as an MDMA, the Local




                                                                           Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                            38.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Market Participant Application and Qualifications
MODULES                                                                                         43.0.0


                 Balancing Authority must still receive the metered data. If a Market Participant

                 designates another entity as a Scheduling Agent or MDMA, the Market

                 Participant remains financially responsible for all Market Activities represented

                 by the Scheduling Agent or MDMA.

          ii.    A Market Participant Applicant that, as a Market Participant, intends to make

                 purchases and sales of Energy, Operating Reserves, Up Ramp Capability, Down

                 Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve or Other Ancillary Services, or

                 FTRs on behalf of other entities shall so inform the Transmission Provider. The

                 Market Participant shall remain financially responsible and liable for all Market

                 Activities in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets in which it engages

                 regardless of on whose behalf it has arranged to make purchases and sales. The

                 Market Participant’s purchases and sales for other entities may, however, impact

                 its own creditworthiness assessment.

   c.     Inform the Transmission Provider of its intent to submit Self-Schedules, Bilateral

          Transactions, Bids, Offers, including Virtual Bids and Offers, or hold FTRs.

          i.     Market Participant Applicants that are party to Grandfathered Agreement(s) and

                 intend to terminate such agreements and provide or receive Transmission Service

                 under this Tariff shall so inform the Transmission Provider pursuant to procedures

                 established by the Transmission Provider. Such Market Participants that intend to

                 maintain service under such agreements should inform the Transmission Provider

                 in accordance with the process set forth by the Transmission Provider of its

                 selection of the optional treatment of transactions pursuant to such agreements




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Market Participant Application and Qualifications
MODULES                                                                                           43.0.0


                 under the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as described in Section 38.8.3.

                 In addition, the Market Participant Applicant shall provide the information listed

                 in Section 38.2.3.a.

   d.     A Market Participant Applicant seeking to submit Demand Bids into the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall demonstrate to the Transmission Provider

          that the end-users to be served by Energy purchased in the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets are located within the Transmission Provider Region or will be brought within

          the Transmission Provider Region prior to any purchases from the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets.

   e.     A Market Participant Applicant seeking to submit Generation Offers or Electric Storage

          Resource Offers, including Self-Schedules, to sell in the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets shall demonstrate to the Transmission Provider that such Market Participant

          Applicant: (i) has exclusive rights through ownership, operational control, or other

          contractual arrangements to the output of Resources capable of responding to the

          Dispatch Target and, if applicable, Setpoint Instructions; (ii) meets any applicable

          requirements pursuant to RAR; and (iii) complies with all metering, telemetry, data

          storage and communication protocols, and other reliability, operation, planning and

          accounting standards and requirements for operating in the Transmission Provider Region

          necessary to allow the Transmission Provider to validate the ability of the Generation

          Resource or Electric Storage Resource to respond to the Dispatch Targets, and, if

          applicable, Setpoint Instructions.

          Criteria for generating facility, including a storage facility, with ZG Interconnection




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Market Participant Application and Qualifications
MODULES                                                                                           43.0.0


          Service. A ZG Resource that is greater than 5 MW in size must register, prior to its

          Commercial Operation Date, as a Generation Resource, Energy Storage Resource, or

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource based on its applicable operating characteristics.

          A Market Participant Applicant seeking to submit ZRC Offers, including Self Schedules

          or FRAPs, for LMRs to sell capacity in the PRA shall demonstrate to the Transmission

          Provider that such Market Participant Applicant: (i) has exclusive rights through

          ownership, operational control, or other contractual arrangements to the output of LMRs

          capable of responding to Scheduling Instructions; (ii) meets any applicable requirements

          pursuant to RAR; and (iii) complies with all metering, data storage, accounting and

          communication protocol requirements applicable to LMRs under the Tariff, Business

          Practices Manuals, or necessary to allow the Transmission Provider to validate the ability

          of the LMR to respond to the Scheduling Instructions.

   f.     A Market Participant Applicant seeking to engage in Market Activities shall demonstrate

          to the Transmission Provider that it meets all of the requirements established by the

          Transmission Provider and included in this Tariff for each activity as to which Market

          Participant seeks to participate, including, without limitation, executing a credit

          agreement in a form acceptable to the Transmission Provider, providing any Financial

          Security required by the Transmission Provider and otherwise complying with the Credit

          Policy.

   g.     A Market Participant Applicant seeking to submit Demand Response Resource–Type I

          Offers or Demand Response Resource–Type II Offers in the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets shall: (i) demonstrate to the Transmission Provider that it has exclusive




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Market Participant Application and Qualifications
MODULES                                                                                           43.0.0


          rights through ownership, operational control, or other contractual rights to the output of

          such Resources, (ii) that such Resources are capable of responding to the Dispatch Target

          for Energy and Operating Reserve and Setpoint Instructions if a Demand Response

          Resource–Type II or that such Resources are capable of responding to commitment

          instructions to supply Energy or responding to deployment instructions associated with

          Dispatch Targets for Contingency Reserve in the case of a Demand Response Resource–

          Type I; (iii) designate those Resources as either a Demand Response Resource–Type I or

          Demand Response Resource–Type II with the Transmission Provider; (iv) demonstrate to

          the Transmission Provider that it complies with all metering, telemetry, data storage, and

          communication protocols, and other reliability, operation, planning, and accounting

          standards and requirements for operating in the Transmission Provider Region necessary

          to allow the Transmission Provider to validate the ability of the Resource to respond as

          described under (ii) above; and (v) verify to the Transmission Provider during the asset

          registration process that it has received any required approvals from all applicable state

          regulatory agencies to enable such Resources to participate in the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets.

   h.     Transmission Provider Evaluation of Application. Upon submission of a complete

          Market Participant Application, and such other information as shall be requested by the

          Transmission Provider, and a signed written representation that the Market Participant

          Applicant will be able to execute the Market Participant Agreement as provided in

          Attachment W of this Tariff upon approval of the Application, the Transmission Provider

          shall investigate and evaluate whether the Market Participant Applicant meets the criteria




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Market Participant Application and Qualifications
MODULES                                                                                           43.0.0


          specified in Section 38.2.2. As soon as practicable, but in any event not later than sixty

          (60) Days after submission of the requested information, the Transmission Provider shall

          notify the Market Participant Applicant of its determination, along with a written

          summary of the basis for the determination. The Transmission Provider shall grant the

          sought for status upon a reasonable showing by the Market Participant Applicant that it

          meets the criteria specified in Section 38.2.2, subject to its execution of the applicable

          Market Participant Agreement and upon approval of the Application.




                                                                           Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                             38.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                Market Participant Applicant Continuing Obligations
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Subsequent to submission of a Market Participant Application, a Market Participant Applicant

   shall be subject to the obligations specified below.

                                 a.      Submission of Information. A Market Participant

                                         Applicant shall furnish all information reasonably

                                         requested by the Transmission Provider that the

                                         Transmission Provider believes is necessary to evaluate the

                                         Market Participant Application. Upon request, the

                                         Transmission Provider may waive the submission of

                                         particular provisions of the Market Participant Application

                                         to the extent the information in the Transmission Provider’s

                                         possession is sufficient to evaluate the Market Participant

                                         Application.

                                 b.      Duty to Notify Transmission Provider of Changed

                                         Circumstances. Subsequent to the submission of the

                                         Market Participation Application, the Market Participant

                                         Applicant shall notify the Transmission Provider within

                                         twenty-four (24) Hours of learning of any unexpected

                                         material adverse change(s) in circumstances that would

                                         affect: (i) the information provided in the Market

                                         Participant Application; (ii) its status as a Market

                                         Participant; or (iii) the status of its Designated Agent(s).

                                         The Transmission Provider reserves the right to re-evaluate




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                           38.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff              Market Participant Applicant Continuing Obligations
MODULES                                                                        30.0.0


                       the Market Participant Application in light of any such new

                       information. Failure to duly notify the Transmission

                       Provider of such a change in information may result in the

                       termination of the Market Participant Application. The

                       Market Participant Applicant shall notify the Transmission

                       Provider of any material adverse change in circumstances

                       within seventy-two (72) Hours of learning of such changed

                       circumstance(s) that would affect: (i) the information

                       provided in the Market Participant Application; (ii) its

                       status as a Market Participant; or (iii) the status of its

                       Designated Agent(s). These notification provisions shall

                       continue to apply to Market Participants after qualification

                       as Market Participants.




                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Withdrawal and Reapplication
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   A Market Participant may terminate its status as a Market Participant by providing the

   Transmission Provider at least five (5) Business Days written notice. Such termination shall not

   relieve the Market Participant of: (i) its obligation to follow the Dispatch Instructions during an

   Emergency; (ii) any obligation to deliver Energy or Operating Reserves or related services to the

   Energy and Operating Reserve Markets pursuant to an Offer made prior to such termination; (iii)

   any obligations pursuant to a Bid made prior to such termination; (iv) any obligations incurred or

   assessed by the Transmission Provider prior to the date of such termination; (v) any credits or

   debits related to FTR Obligations held by the Market Participant, until the Market Participant has

   sold or otherwise divested itself of the FTR; or (vi) any obligation to provide indemnification for

   the consequences of acts, omissions, or events occurring prior to such termination. A Market

   Participant that has terminated its Market Participant status may reapply to become a Market

   Participant no earlier than one (1) Month after the effective date of termination, and only

   provided that the Market Participant is not in Default of any obligation incurred under this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


   a.     Standards. In performing its obligations under this Tariff, a Market Participant shall, at

          all times, conduct its operations pursuant to the following standards.

          i.     Each Market Participant shall at all times: (i) follow Good Utility Practice; (ii)

                 comply with all applicable laws and regulations; (iii) comply with the applicable

                 principles, guidelines, standards and requirements of the Commission, ERO and

                 the applicable Regional Entities; (iv) comply with the procedures established for

                 operation by the Transmission Provider; and (v) cooperate with the Transmission

                 Provider as necessary pursuant to the terms of this Tariff, for the operation of the

                 facilities in the Transmission Provider Region in a safe, reliable manner,

                 consistent with Good Utility Practice.

          ii.    Each Market Participant shall operate, or shall cause to be operated, any

                 Resources supplying Energy and/or Operating Reserve owned or controlled by

                 such entity within the Transmission Provider Region or otherwise supplying

                 Energy to, through, or out of, the Transmission Provider Region in a manner

                 consistent with the standards, requirements or directions of the Transmission

                 Provider, pursuant to the terms of this Tariff. Such standards and requirements

                 shall be established in accordance with industry standards, Applicable Reliability

                 Standards, Commission regulation, Good Utility Practice and applicable law. The

                 directions of the Transmission Provider shall be consistent with those directions

                 authorized under this Tariff; provided, however, no Market Participant shall be

                 required to take any action inconsistent with Good Utility Practice or applicable

                 law.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


          iii.   Each Market Participant shall notify the Transmission Provider of any changes to

                 the availability of, changes in quantity of, and/or changes in the Resources it has

                 committed for Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

                 Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve as the Operating Day approaches in

                 accordance with timing specified in Business Practices Manuals.

          iv.    Each Market Participant shall obtain and maintain all permits, licenses, or

                 approvals required for it to participate in the Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Markets in the manner contemplated by this Tariff.

          v.     Any Market Participant that seeks to transfer control of its generating unit or load

                 to (or from) the MISO Balancing Authority Area from (or to) a specified external

                 Balancing Authority Area on or after September 1, 2018 must execute and abide

                 by the terms of the Pseudo-tie Agreement included as Attachment FFF-1 or

                 Attachment FFF-2 to this Tariff prior to transferring control of the generating unit

                 or load specified. The Market Participant shall conform to all standards,

                 specifications, and requirements of Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2, as

                 applicable, at all times the Pseudo-tie Agreement is in effect for that Market

                 Participant.

   b.     Scheduling. Each Market Participant shall provide, or cause to be provided to the

          Transmission Provider, scheduling and other information specified in this Tariff, and

          such other information as the Transmission Provider reasonably requires. Such

          information shall be provided in accordance with the deadlines established by this Tariff

          or by the Transmission Provider. Any Market Participant that executes the Pseudo-tie




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


          Agreement in Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2 shall conform to all standards,

          specifications, and requirements regarding scheduling and providing information to

          MISO as outlined in Attachment FFF-1 and Attachment FFF-2, as applicable.

          The Transmission Provider shall abide by appropriate requirements for the non-disclosure

          and protection of any Confidential Information given to the Transmission Provider by a

          Market Participant as specified in Section 38.9. Each Market Participant shall maintain,

          or cause to be maintained, compatible information and communications systems, as

          specified by the Transmission Provider, required to transmit scheduling, dispatch, or

          other time-sensitive information to the Transmission Provider in a timely manner. Any

          Market Participant that executes the Pseudo-tie Agreement in Attachment FFF-1 or

          Attachment FFF-2 shall maintain or cause to be maintained all communications and other

          systems necessary to convey data to the MISO Balancing Authority and external

          Balancing Authority as required under Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2, as

          applicable.

   c.     Fees and Charges. Each Market Participant shall be responsible for all fees and charges

          to the Transmission Provider for operation of the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets

          as determined by the Transmission Provider and allocated to the Market Participant in

          accordance with Schedule 17 of this Tariff.

          In addition, each Market Participant shall be responsible for all fees and charges of the

          Transmission Provider for administration of Financial Transmission Rights as determined

          by the Transmission Provider and allocated to the Market Participant in accordance with

          Schedule 16 of this Tariff.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                            50.0.0


    d.    Communications.

          i.     Each Market Participant shall have, or shall arrange to have: (i) its operations

                 staffed and equipped with communications systems capable of real-time

                 communication with the Transmission Provider during normal and Emergency

                 conditions; and (ii) systems to permit the Market Participant to control its Load or

                 facilities sufficient to meet the requirements of its Market Activities.

          ii.    A Market Participant selling Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

                 Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve from Resources within the

                 Transmission Provider Region shall: (a) report to the Transmission Provider

                 sources of Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

                 Capability, and Short-Term Reserve available for operation; (b) supply to the

                 Transmission Provider all applicable Offer data; (c) report to the Transmission

                 Provider those Resources that are Self-Scheduled Resources; (d) confirm with the

                 Transmission Provider any Interchange Schedules; (e) respond to the

                 Transmission

                 Provider’s directives to start, shutdown, or change output levels of Resources, in

                 accordance with the terms specified in the Offer or change scheduled voltages or

                 reactive output levels; (f) continuously maintain all Offers consistent with the

                 Offer rules and obligations for Market Participants in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market, as specified in Section 39, and/or Real-Time Energy

                 and Operating Reserve Market, as specified in Section 40 concurrently with on-

                 line operating information; and (g) ensure that, where so equipped, Resources are




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                          50.0.0


                 operated with control equipment, functioning as specified in the Business

                 Practices Manuals.

          iii.   A Market Participant selling Energy from Resources outside the Transmission

                 Provider Region shall comply with the Transmission Provider’s requirements for

                 Interchange Schedules provided herein.

          iv.    The Market Participant shall furnish the Transmission Provider with the

                 information specified in the Offer as set forth in Section 39 and Section 40 of this

                 Tariff for new Resources including default unit ratings, default Start-Up Offers or

                 Shut-Down Offers, time parameters, and default No-Load Offers or Hourly

                 Curtailment Offers. The information must be furnished no less than thirty (30)

                 days before a Market Participant’s initial Offer to sell Energy from a given

                 Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or the Real-

                 Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          v.     A Market Participant that is a Load Serving Entity or is purchasing on behalf of a

                 Load Serving Entity shall respond to Transmission Provider directives as set forth

                 in Section 40.2.20 this Tariff.

          vi.    To make purchases in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, a Market

                 Participant that is not a Load Serving Entity or purchasing on behalf of a Load

                 Serving Entity shall provide to the Transmission Provider requests to purchase

                 specified amounts of Virtual Energy for each Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


          vii.   Any Market Participant that executes the Pseudo-Tie Agreement included as

                 Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2 to this Tariff shall provide the

                 Transmission Provider information and data in the manner and form specified in

                 Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2, as applicable.

   e.     Metering.

          i.     Market Participants shall meet the minimum metering specifications and

                 standards described in this Section 38.2.5.e for all meters that are used as a data

                 source by the Transmission Provider, and the Transmission Provider shall make

                 these specifications and standards available in the Business Practices Manuals.

          ii.    A Market Participant shall either install and operate, or otherwise arrange for,

                 appropriate metering and related equipment capable of recording and transmitting

                 all data communications, as specified in this Section 38.2.5.e, reasonably

                 necessary for the Transmission Provider to perform the services specified in this

                 Tariff.

          iii.   Where available, a Market Participant or MDMA shall provide the Transmission

                 Provider with Metered data that meets the Transmission Provider’s requirements

                 by one of the following means: (a) direct transmission to the Transmission

                 Provider; (b) direct transmission to the Transmission Provider through the Local

                 Balancing Authority, Transmission Owner, ITC or LSE within whose area the

                 Load is located; or (c) indirectly through metering provided by the Local

                 Balancing Authority, Transmission Owner, ITC or LSE within whose area the

                 Load is located. The Transmission Provider shall make this data available to the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                            50.0.0


                 Local Balancing Authority upon request. The Market Participant or MDMA shall

                 also provide its Metered data to the Transmission Owner, Local Balancing

                 Authority, ITC, LSE or EDC within whose area the Load is located to the extent

                 such information is needed to implement the Transmission Provider’s system

                 operation and planning functions, to provide billing services to the Market

                 Participant, to allow for data to be verified and agreed to by Transmission Owner,

                 Local Balancing Authority, ITC, LSE or EDC, or to permit the performance of

                 calculations required by the Transmission Provider.

          iv.    A Market Participant whose metering services are provided by an MDMA shall

                 itself be responsible for ensuring that all data described in this Section 38.2.5 are

                 provided accurately.

          v.     All Market Participants must use their best efforts to provide the Transmission

                 Provider with Metered values for purposes of settlement in the form requested by

                 the Transmission Provider.

                 (a.)   Market Participants shall report injection and withdrawal of Energy at

                        each Commercial Pricing Node where they have injections or withdrawals.

                        If the Market Participant does not have available actual meter data at these

                        locations, the Market Participant is required to estimate Hourly injections

                        and withdrawals based on their possible information and make the data

                        available to the Transmission Provider by submitting the meter data

                        according to the timeline established in the Business Practices Manuals. If

                        no meter data is provided to the Transmission Provider by the Market




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                         50.0.0


                        Participant, or the submitted data is unreasonable or erroneous, the

                        Transmission Provider shall estimate the Hourly injections and

                        withdrawals based on the information it has available to be used in

                        Settlements for the Market Participant. A Market Participant on behalf of

                        a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource shall report only wholesale

                        injections and withdrawals.

                 (b.)   Market Participants must register any Internal Commercially Pseudo-Tied

                        Load, identifying for each such Load: (1) the Commercial Pricing Node

                        representing such Load, (2) the Local Balancing Authority where the Load

                        is physically located, and (3) the Elemental Pricing Node(s) comprising

                        the Internal Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load. Market Participants shall

                        report injection and withdrawal of Energy for each Internal Commercially

                        Pseudo-Tied Load where they have injections or withdrawals. If the

                        Market Participant does not have available actual meter data at these

                        locations, the Market Participant is required to estimate Hourly injections

                        and withdrawals based on its possible information and make the data

                        available to the Transmission Provider by submitting the meter data

                        according to the timeline established in the Business Practices Manuals. If

                        no meter data is provided to the Transmission Provider by the Market

                        Participant, or the submitted data is unreasonable or erroneous, the

                        Transmission Provider shall estimate the Hourly injections and

                        withdrawals for an Internal Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load as the




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                          50.0.0


                        product of: (i) the sum of the weighting factors for the Elemental Pricing

                        Node(s) comprising the Internal Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load that

                        were used in the calculation of the Day-Ahead and Real-Time LMPs of

                        the Commercial Pricing Node representing such Load; and (ii) the Meter

                        data submitted or estimated for that Commercial Pricing Node.

          vi.    Market Participants shall submit withdrawal data for each Commercial Pricing

                 Node where they represent Load, including consumption information for

                 Commercial Pricing Nodes defined as Aggregate Load Zones. The Transmission

                 Provider will, for Settlement purposes apply any calculated Residual Load in each

                 Local Balancing Authority to the withdrawal data for the Load Zone applicable to

                 the Residual Load in that Local Balancing Authority.

          vii.   All Market Participants shall maintain metering equipment that meets the

                 following minimum standards:

                 a.     All metering equipment must use megawatt-hour (MWh) as the standard

                        unit of service measurement. Service may be measure in kilowatt-hours

                        (kWh) if required by specific service, local or state regulations, host

                        utilities, service providers, or as are mutually agreed upon by the parties

                        involved, provided that KWh information is converted to fractional MWh

                        information before it is transmitted to the Transmission Provider.

                 b.     All metering equipment must have bi-directional capability (the ability to

                        measure power flows in both directions).




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                        50.0.0


                 c.    All metering equipment must be capable of storing a minimum of 35-days

                       of hourly intervals for each measured value.

                 d.    Test switches or other means must be used to allow independent testing

                       and/or replacement of each meter or transducer using a secondary circuit

                       so as not to interrupt the operation of other devices using the same

                       secondary circuit.

                 e.    Current transformers and voltage transformers used for metering shall

                       meet or exceed an accuracy class of 0.3%, and secondary connected

                       burdens shall not exceed rated burdens of any voltage transformer. The

                       same accuracy standards shall apply to optical metering transducers.

                 f.    Metering equipment shall be tested periodically in accordance with the

                       ANSI Standard requirement for the particular meter type as stated in ANSI

                       C12.1 Appendix D – Periodic Testing Schedules. If any such test

                       identifies any deficiency or inaccuracy in any metering equipment, the

                       deficient or inaccurate equipment must be restored to correct operation as

                       soon a reasonably possible, but in no case any later than 30 days from the

                       date of discovery.

                 g.    All Market Participants must maintain meter and equipment records, and

                       associated documentation that demonstrates compliance with the

                       requirements of this Section (including documentation of the appropriate

                       periodic testing of metering equipment). Such records must be maintained




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


                        for a period of seven years and be made available for inspection by the

                        Transmission Provider upon request.

                 h.     All Market Participants must maintain all meter and equipment records,

                        and associated documentation in a form that insures the Transmission

                        Provider’s ability to obtain the metering data it needs to reliably and

                        efficiently operate the Transmission System. The Transmission Provider

                        must file all additional metering standards proposed by the Metering

                        Standards Working Group unless, in its own independent judgment, the

                        Transmission Provider determines that the additional standards proposed

                        by the Metering Standards Working Group, if implemented, could

                        adversely impact the reliable or efficient operation of the Transmission

                        System.

   f.     Energy Delivery Outside of the Transmission Provider Region.

          i.     An Interchange Schedule for delivery outside of the Transmission Provider

                 Region shall be priced at and delivered to an Interface. Any transmission service

                 required on transmission systems beyond the Transmission Provider Region shall

                 be the responsibility of the Parties to the transaction. External resources can

                 supply Energy through Interchange Schedules in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          ii.    A Market Participant may enter into a transaction for the purchase or sale of

                 Energy to or from another Market Participant or any other entity, outside of the

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, subject to the obligations of the Market




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


                 Participant pursuant to RAR. Market Participants shall report to and coordinate

                 with the Transmission Provider in accordance with this Tariff all Interchange

                 Schedules, and Pseudo-Tie transactions, that include a physical transfer of Energy

                 to or from an entity external to the Transmission Provider Region. All sales of

                 Energy, Capacity, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

                 Capability, and Short-Term Reserve from resources located in Canada and all

                 purchases of Energy, Capacity, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down

                 Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve under this Tariff to serve load in

                 Canada shall be deemed to have a point-of-delivery at the U.S/Canada border.

                 Sales of Operating Reserve from resources located in Canada may be provided

                 from qualified Pseudo-tied External Resources or qualified External

                 Asynchronous Resources. Pseudo-Tie transaction may utilize Day-Ahead Virtual

                 Transactions to align the Transmission Usage Charge and available congestion

                 hedges, i.e. FTRs and ARRs.

          iii.   A Market Participant may Pseudo-tie all or part of its generation or load as

                 specified in the Pseudo-tie Agreement included as Attachment FFF-2 to this

                 Tariff, as applicable, subject to the approval of the Transmission Provider. The

                 Market Participant shall be subject to all the standards, specifications, and

                 requirements of Attachment FFF-2, as applicable, for the generation and load

                 identified as subject to any executed Pseudo-tie Agreement under Attachment

                 FFF-2.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                          50.0.0


   g.     Generation Outage Schedule. The Transmission Provider shall coordinate all

          Generator Planned Outages of a Market Participant’s Generation Resource within the

          Transmission Provider Region, as appropriate, to the extent such Generator Planned

          Outage impacts the Transmission Provider Region, as follows:

          i.     All Market Participants owning or controlling Generation Resource(s) within the

                 Transmission Provider Region affecting transmission capability or reliability shall

                 submit their Generator Planned Outage schedules to the Transmission Provider

                 for a minimum of a rolling two (2) Year period, however Market Participants with

                 nuclear Generation Resources shall submit nuclear Generator Planned Outage

                 schedules for a minimum of a rolling three (3) Year period. Outages schedules

                 submitted within these parameters will be considered by the Transmission

                 Provider as timely submitted. The Generator Planned Outage schedules shall be

                 presumed to be current unless updated. Market Participants may modify

                 previously submitted planned outages at any time up until twelve (12) months

                 prior to the time of the previously scheduled outage for non-nuclear Generation

                 Resources and twenty-four (24) months prior to the outage for nuclear Generation

                 Resources.

                 If a Market Participant modifies a previously submitted planned outage, then the

                 queue position in which the Generator Planned Outage schedule was received will

                 be reset to the time such modified planned outage schedule is received by the

                 Transmission Provider.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                            50.0.0


          ii.    The Transmission Provider shall analyze a Generator Planned Outage schedule to

                 determine its effect on Available Transfer Capability (ATC), the reliability of the

                 facilities within the Transmission Provider Region, and any other relevant

                 material effects. The Transmission Provider shall inform a Market Participant if

                 its schedule is expected to have a material impact on the reliability of the facilities

                 within the Transmission Provider Region within three (3) Months after Generator

                 Planned Outage schedules are submitted.

          iii.   As part of the review process, the Transmission Provider shall identify

                 opportunities and associated costs for rescheduling the Generator Planned Outage

                 to enhance the reliability of the facilities within the Transmission Provider

                 Region. Prior to making any rescheduling decision, the Transmission Provider

                 shall attempt to minimize the economic consequences of rescheduling including

                 direct costs (excluding Opportunity Costs), to consider physical feasibility, and to

                 coordinate with the affected Market Participants.

                 The Transmission Provider will re-schedule outages consistent with Good Utility

                 Practice when faced with, in real-time or in any time horizon for which NERC

                 standards require planning, a documented reasonable expectation of an

                 Emergency, or a documented reasonable expectation of any of the following

                 circumstances that compromise the reliability of the Transmission System, as

                 determined by the Transmission Provider: (a) the inability to maintain voltage

                 required by nuclear Generation Resources, or to meet any other Nuclear Plant

                 Interface Requirement, as that term is defined by NERC, including the provision




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


                 of off-site power supply; (b) the inability to maintain the Transmission System

                 within System Operating Limits using normal (non-emergency) operating

                 procedures or restore the Transmission System to normal operating conditions

                 following a single contingency with the use of normal (non-emergency) operating

                 procedures; or (c) the potential for contingencies to significantly affect

                 Transmission System reliability of metropolitan areas.

                 The Transmission Provider will coordinate with affected Market Participants to

                 attempt to voluntarily reschedule Generator Planned Outages to minimize direct

                 costs, which do not include Opportunity Costs, of such outages. If the

                 Transmission Provider is unable to resolve scheduling conflicts voluntarily with

                 the affected Market Participants, the Transmission Provider will assign priority to

                 Generator Planned Outage schedules based upon the chronological order in which

                 the Generator Planned Outage schedules were received to reschedule the outage.

                 Provided that the Generator Planned Outage is timely submitted, no rescheduling

                 will occur within twelve (12) Months of a Generator Planned Outage (twenty-four

                 (24) Months for nuclear Generation Resources), except where there is a

                 documented reasonable expectation of an Emergency or a documented reasonable

                 expectation of any of the circumstances (a)-(c) described supra in Subsection

                 38.2.5.g.iii that compromise the reliability of the Transmission System, due to the

                 following unexpected conditions: (1) severe weather; or (2) unplanned (urgent,

                 emergency, or forced) outages.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                          50.0.0


                 Market Participants whose Generator Planned Outage(s) have been rescheduled

                 shall be compensated for reasonable and explicit additional costs associated with

                 rescheduling such Generator Planned Outage pursuant to Attachment BB of this

                 Tariff and will be applied on a non-discriminatory basis to all Market Participants

                 assuming the following conditions:

                        (1) the Generator Planned Outage was timely submitted; or (2) the

                        Generator Planned Outage was not timely submitted and the following

                        occurred: (a) the Transmission Provider approved (accepted) the

                        Generator Planned Outage in the outage scheduling application; and (b)

                        the Transmission Provider was forced to re-schedule such planned outage

                        within twelve (12) Months of the planned outage (twenty-four (24)

                        Months for nuclear Generation Resources) date due to a documented

                        reasonable expectation of an Emergency or a documented reasonable

                        expectation of any of the circumstances (a)-(c) described supra in

                        Subsection 38.2.5.g.iii that compromise the reliability of the Transmission

                        System, that were caused by the following unexpected conditions: (1)

                        severe weather; or (2) unplanned (urgent, emergency, or forced) outages.

                 The Market Participant shall not be compensated for any opportunity costs

                 associated with such rescheduling.

          iv.    The Transmission Provider shall be responsible for documenting all Generator

                 Planned Outage schedules, all schedule changes, and all studies and services

                 performed with respect to any Generator Planned Outage. If a Generator Planned




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                             50.0.0


                  Outage has been rescheduled, the Transmission Provider shall issue a report to a

                  stakeholder group, after the date that the originally scheduled outage has passed.

          v.      For Market Participants who are operators of nuclear Generation Resources

                  within the Transmission Provider Region, the Transmission Provider shall enter

                  into written agreements that define scheduling criteria, limitations and restrictions

                  necessary to ensure the safety and reliability of such facilities.

          vi.     The Transmission Provider may not reschedule Generator Planned Outages, if

                  doing so would contravene applicable laws, regulations, judicial orders, agency

                  orders, or where rescheduling is not feasible (voided warranty or equipment

                  damage).

          vii.    If: (1) a Market Participant does not provide the Transmission Provider with at

                  least one year advance notice of a Proposed Generator Planned Outage for

                  Generation Resources located within the Transmission Provider Region; (2) the

                  Transmission Provider determines that the proposed outage would cause a

                  scheduling conflict as specified in this Section 38.2.5.g; and (3) the Market

                  Participant refuses to reschedule the Proposed Generator Planned Outage as

                  requested by the Transmission Provider, then during the next Planning Year, the

                  Transmission Provider shall determine the Seasonal Accredited Capacity value

                  for such Generation Resource under RAR by treating the outage as a Forced

                  Outage.

          viii.   For Generator Planned Outages scheduled to start prior to September 1, 2022, a

                  Resource may be eligible for accreditation adjustments for purposes of RAR




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                           50.0.0


                 pursuant to Schedule 53 based on the advance notification requirements set forth

                 in Sections 38.2.5.g.ix and 38.2.5.g.x.

          ix.    In addition to the provisions set forth in Section 38.2.5.g.vii, a Market Participant

                 seeking an accreditation adjustment to Tier 2 hours providing notice of a

                 Proposed Generator Planned Outage for a Generation Resource located within the

                 Transmission Provider Region shall provide the Transmission Provider with: (1)

                 at least one hundred and twenty (120) Calendar Days’ advance notice; or, (2)

                 between fourteen (14) and one hundred and nineteen (119) Calendar Days’

                 advance notice of a Proposed Generator Planned Outage to occur entirely during a

                 time of adequate projected margin, at the time the outage is provided to the

                 Transmission Provider. There is adequate projected margin when the

                 Maintenance Margin is at or above zero (0) MW after subtracting the MW of the

                 requested Proposed Generator Planned Outage.

          x.     A Market Participant will be able to make changes to its Generator Planned

                 Outage by submitting a new outage request for any increased outage duration

                 provided: (1) the schedule change is requested not less than fourteen (14)

                 Calendar Days prior to the start of such outage; and, (2) the increased duration

                 must occur entirely during a time of adequate projected margin, at the time the

                 change is submitted.

   h.     Continuing Creditworthiness. Market Participants shall continue to comply with the

          Credit Policy and creditworthiness criteria established by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                38.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Market Participant Obligations
MODULES                                                                                             50.0.0


   i.     Grandfathered Agreements. A Market Participant that is party to a Grandfathered

          Agreement(s) may choose to terminate such contracts and receive or provide

          Transmission Service under this Tariff. Market Participants that intend to maintain

          service under Grandfathered Agreements shall inform the Transmission Provider of their

          selection of the treatment of transactions pursuant to such agreements under the Energy

          and Operating Reserve Markets as described in Section 38.8. Market Participants may

          request a change of treatment of such agreements annually as provided under those

          options available to parties under Grandfathered Agreements described in Section 38.8.3;

          provided, that, only Market Participants that settled the initial treatment of the

          Grandfathered Agreement with the Transmission Provider prior to July 28, 2004, may

          request such a change of treatment to any of Option A, Option B or Option C; and

          provided, further, that Market Participants that did not settle the initial treatment of the

          Grandfathered Agreement with the Transmission Provider prior to July 28, 2004, may

          request such a change of treatment only to select either Option A or Option C. Requests

          for such change of treatment may be made and granted only during the period designated

          by the Transmission Provider for the annual redistributions of FTRs. In addition, the

          Market Participants shall provide the information listed below. Information to be

          provided to the Transmission Provider includes:

          i.     The GFA Responsible Entity.

          ii.    The GFA Scheduling Entity.

          iii.   The source and sink points applicable under the Grandfathered Agreement(s).

          iv.    The maximum MW Capacity permissible under the Grandfathered Agreement(s).




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            38.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                          Market Participant Operational Functions, Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   a.     Market Participants shall perform the following functions for all Resources for which the

   Market Participant is qualified to submit Offers.

          i.      Two days prior to the Operating Day and on the day prior to the Operating Day,

          provide operating and availability status of Resources to the Transmission Provider for

          reliability analysis;

          ii.     On the day prior to the Operating Day, report the status of automatic voltage

          regulators to Transmission Operators;

   On the day prior to the Operating Day, submit Interchange Schedule requests in accordance with

   process and procedures established by the Transmission Provider.

   b.     During the Operating Day, Market Participants shall perform the following functions for

   all Resources for which the respective Market Participant is qualified to submit Offers:

          i.      Implement Reactive Supply and Voltage Control schedules provided by

          Transmission Operators; and

          ii.     Implement Dispatch Targets and Setpoint Instructions and commitment

          instructions provided by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   38.2.7 Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Support Resources

   a.     Generator or SCU Notification of Change in Status.

          (i)     Notification Procedures for Units.

          An owner of a Generation Resource, Synchronous Condenser Unit (SCU), or a Generator

   that is directly interconnected to the Transmission System but is Pseudo-tied out of the

   Transmission Provider’s Balancing Authority Area that is planning to Suspend operations of all

   or any portion of that resource must notify the Transmission Provider of such a plan by

   submitting a completed Attachment Y Notice to the Transmission Provider. This notification

   provision also applies to a Generation Resource connected to the underlying lower voltage

   facilities within Transmission Provider region and to Generation Resources that are not directly

   interconnected to the Transmission System, but are External Resources that are Pseudo-tied into

   the Transmission Provider’s Balancing Authority Area. The Transmission Provider shall

   coordinate with the entity to which the External Resource is directly connected to determine

   whether the External Resource is necessary for reliability of the Transmission System, in

   accordance with applicable coordinated planning provisions between the Transmission Provider

   and the regional planning entity to which the External Resource is interconnected.

          The owner of a Generation Resource or SCU shall submit an Attachment Y Notice to the

   Transmission Provider at least four full Quarterly Study Periods prior to changing to Suspend

   status, unless the Generation Resource or SCU is inoperable due to Forced Outage in which case

   Attachment Y Notice must be submitted to the Transmission Provider at least thirty (30) days

   prior to changing to Suspend status. A Generation Resource that has undergone a Reliability

   Assessment Study that performs an Attachment Y equivalent study as part of the Generating




                                                                         Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   Facility Replacement process and all reliability violations identified through such study have

   been mitigated must submit an Attachment Y Notice to the Transmission Provider at least thirty

   (30) days prior to changing to Suspend status. The owner of a Pseudo-tied out Generator shall

   submit an Attachment Y Notice to the Transmission Provider at least thirty (30) days prior to the

   anticipated effective date of change of status.

          A Generation Resource or SCU that is inoperable due to Forced Outage or a Pseudo-tied

   out Generator shall not be designated as an SSR Unit. The provisions for time limitations on

   suspension within Section 38.2.7 shall apply to a Generation Resource or SCU that is inoperable

   due to Forced Outage and a Pseudo-tied out Generator.

          A Generation Resource that is designated as a Blackstart Unit by a Transmission

   Operator in its System Restoration Plans shall not be designated as an SSR Unit to solely provide

   Blackstart Service. However, the Transmission Provider may determine that SSR Unit status is

   justified if such Generation Resource is required to maintain the reliability of the Transmission

   System based on its Attachment Y Reliability Study. Section 38.2.7 shall not modify or alter a

   Transmission Operator’s obligations under the Tariff to identify Blackstart Units that are

   included in its System Restoration Plans, or a Blackstart Unit Owner's obligations to comply

   with the terms of any Blackstart Service agreement, in accordance with Schedule 33, or the

   requirements of Commission approved reliability standards.

          The following exception applies to the Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement

   and System Support Resource (SSR) provisions in Section 38.2.7: The owner of a Generation

   Resource or SCU that requests a Generator Planned Outage or submits a Generator Forced

   Outage through the Transmission Provider’s outage scheduling system (Control Room




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   Operations Window – CROW or its successor) does not need to submit an Attachment Y Notice

   to the Transmission Provider if the request does not involve a change of status to Suspend.

             An owner of a Generation Resource, SCU, or a Pseudo-tied out Generator certifies by

   submitting an Attachment Y Notice that it has elected to Suspend such resource and the

   Attachment Y Notice shall be executed by an officer of such owner attesting to that claim. The

   decision to Suspend may be modified by rescission as specifically provided in this Section

   38.2.7.

             An owner may not submit a new Attachment Y Notice to Suspend that supersedes a prior

   notification unless the prior Attachment Y Notice is rescinded. The new Attachment Y Notice

   shall be submitted to the Transmission Provider at least four full Quarterly Study Periods prior to

   changing to Suspend status.

             (ii)   Confidentiality of Attachment Y Notice.

             The Transmission Provider shall treat all Attachment Y Notices as Confidential

   Information unless the Attachment Y Reliability Study is complete and any of the following

   occurs: 1) the owner has elected to waive its rescission rights; 2) the resource fails to return to

   operation before the period for rescission has lapsed; 3) public release is required under Section

   38.2.7.b in order to evaluate the need for an SSR Agreement; or 4) the information is otherwise

   publicly disclosed by the owner of a Generation Resource, SCU, or a Pseudo-tied out Generator.

   The Transmission Provider shall promptly post on OASIS that an Attachment Y Notice was

   submitted, along with the effective date of retirement, under the first three of these

   circumstances.




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


          (iii)   Notification of the Outage Scheduler After Submittal of Attachment Y

                  Notice.

          After receipt of an Attachment Y Notice, the Transmission Provider shall schedule such

   outage notification through the Transmission Provider's Control Room Operations Window

   ("CROW") outage scheduling system, or successor system, to coordinate the outage planning of

   a Generation Resource or SCU through CROW, on behalf of the owner.

   b.     SSR Unit Procedures.

          System Support Resource (SSR) procedures provide a mechanism for the Transmission

   Provider to enter into agreements with Market Participants that own or operate Generation

   Resources or Synchronous Condenser Units (SCUs) that are required by the Transmission

   Provider to maintain reliability of the Transmission System, if all or a specified portion of the

   capacity of such Generation Resources or SCUs would otherwise either Retire or Suspend. SSR

   Agreements are a last-resort measure to address a reliability issue on the Transmission System

   facilities under the functional control of the Transmission Provider and shall only be entered into

   once all potential SSR Agreement alternatives have been examined.

          An owner of a Generation Resource or SCU must submit all necessary information to

   enable the Transmission Provider to evaluate whether SSR Unit status is appropriate for such

   Generation Resource or SCU. If, after completing a reliability study (Attachment Y Reliability

   Study) and analyzing potential alternatives (Attachment Y Alternatives Study), the Transmission

   Provider determines that SSR Unit status is justified for a Generation Resource or SCU, that is

   not subject to an exception under Section 38.2.7.a, then the Transmission Provider and Market

   Participant of such Generation Resource or SCU shall enter into an SSR Agreement, in




                                                                           Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   accordance with the Attachment Y-1 form of agreement. The SSR Unit will be operated in

   accordance with the terms of the SSR Agreement, which contains detailed terms and conditions

   regarding operation and compensation of such Generation Resource or SCU. The Transmission

   Provider shall periodically review the reliability requirements of the Transmission Provider

   Region and shall determine which, if any, SSR Agreements should be extended.

          The Transmission Provider shall use reasonable efforts to respond to the owner within

   150 Calendar Days after the start of the individual Attachment Y Reliability Study, regarding

   whether the subject of an Attachment Y Notice appears to be required for transmission system

   reliability, unless an alternative date is agreed to by the owner and the Transmission Provider.

          If the Attachment Y Reliability Study determines that a reliability concern exists, and a

   response is provided by the Transmission Provider to the owner, the Transmission Provider shall

   promptly post on OASIS: (1) that an Attachment Y Notice was submitted; (2) that the

   Transmission Provider's Attachment Y Reliability Study concluded that the Generation Resource

   or SCU was required for the reliability of the Transmission System; (3) the draft report on the

   Attachment Y Reliability Study with the CEII information redacted from the report; and (4) how

   the associated SSR Unit costs would be allocated in the event that the Generation Resource or

   SCU is required to provide service under an SSR designation.

          The Transmission Provider shall discontinue Confidential treatment of an Attachment Y

   Notice and Attachment Y Reliability Study in the event that the Attachment Y Reliability Study

   results determine that the Generation Resource or SCU is required to maintain system reliability

   and would be eligible for treatment as an SSR Unit. The Transmission Provider may use

   information related to Retire or Suspend status in its Transmission Planning processes (pursuant




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   to Attachment FF and the Transmission Planning BPM) and in its Generator Interconnection

   process (pursuant to Attachment X and the Generation Interconnection BPM), provided that

   recipients of the information have signed appropriate Non-Disclosure Agreements with the

   Transmission Provider.

   c.     Evaluation of Need for the SSR Designation.

          The Transmission Provider will perform an Attachment Y Reliability Study to determine

   whether the Generation Resource or SCU is necessary for the reliability of the Transmission

   System based on the analyses described in this section and the criteria set forth in the Business

   Practices Manuals, but will not determine in this initial analysis the available alternatives to

   designating the Generation Resource or SCU as an SSR Unit. The Transmission Provider will

   start the study process at the beginning of the Quarterly Study Period. A request to Suspend

   operations submitted in an Attachment Y Notice received during a quarter will be studied

   individually, beginning in the subsequent Quarterly Study Period.

          In collaboration with the affected Transmission Owners, the Transmission Provider will

   cause an evaluation to be performed of transmission system conditions (an Attachment Y

   Reliability Study) that result from the change in status of the unit(s) subject to Attachment Y

   notification requirements. The evaluation will consider the performance of the transmission

   system to determine if thermal or voltage violations of applicable NERC Standards and

   Transmission Owner planning criteria occur when the unit is offline compared to conditions

   when the unit is online. The scope of this evaluation will include a steady state analysis, and

   may require analyses of stability and import limitations for the particular study area. Study cases

   will be derived from approved MTEP models that are representative of the period of time for




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   which the suspension of the unit(s) is requested, and will include models that represent near-term

   and/or longer-term scenarios as appropriate for the study period. Models that are developed to

   reflect both the online and offline status of the unit being evaluated will be analyzed to compare

   the differences in results to determine the impact of the unit on the transmission system. The

   results of the evaluation will be reviewed with the participating Transmission Owners to verify

   the Transmission Provider’s findings and to evaluate proposed solutions that should be

   considered to address the reliability issues. The need to retain a unit(s) as a System Support

   Resource, absent implementation of a feasible alternative, shall be determined by the presence of

   unresolved reliability violations on the Transmission System that is under the functional control

   of the Transmission Provider.

          The Transmission Provider shall post the determination of reliability need on the

   Transmission Provider’s OASIS and shall: (1) begin negotiations of a potential SSR Agreement

   with the Market Participant owning or operating the Generation Resource or SCU; and (2) use

   reasonable efforts to hold a stakeholder meeting pursuant to Attachment FF within thirty (30)

   Calendar Days to review alternatives to the potential SSR Unit designation or designations (if

   multiple Attachment Y Notices apply). The Transmission Provider will schedule subsequent

   stakeholder meetings as needed. The Transmission Provider shall complete the Attachment Y

   Alternatives Study within four full Quarterly Study Periods after receipt of an Attachment Y

   Notice, if the Attachment Y Notice provides only four full Quarterly Study Periods of advance

   notification, unless otherwise agreed to by the owner of the potential SSR Unit. If no alternative

   is identified as available by the Attachment Y Notice date to Suspend, then the Transmission




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   Provider shall file the SSR Agreement with an effective date as of the Attachment Y Notice date

   to Suspend.

          Before entering into an SSR Agreement with any Generation Resource or SCU, the

   Transmission Provider shall assess, in an open and transparent planning process in accordance

   with the provisions of the Transmission Expansion Planning Protocol Attachment FF to the

   Tariff, feasible alternatives to the proposed SSR Agreement. The list of alternatives to SSR Unit

   status that the Transmission Provider shall consider and expeditiously approve as applicable

   include (depending upon the type of reliability concern identified): (i) redispatch/reconfiguration

   through operator instruction; (ii) remedial action plans; (iii) special protection schemes initiated

   upon Generation Resource trips or unplanned Transmission Outages; (iv) contracted demand

   response or Generator alternatives; and (v) transmission expansions. Consistent with Section

   B.1.b of Attachment FF, the Transmission Provider will review and evaluate alternatives to an

   SSR Agreement on a comparable basis and select the most appropriate solution. Comparability

   includes the ability of the Transmission Provider to require contractual assurances that the party

   who provides the alternative solution will implement the solution before the Generation

   Resource or SCU with the Attachment Y Notice is permitted to Retire or Suspend. The executed

   contractual arrangements must provide a binding arrangement that obligates the Market

   Participant who provides the alternative solution to complete any required infrastructure changes

   that are needed to avoid the reliability issues that would otherwise be addressed by transmission

   upgrades. While the contractual arrangements will vary based on the particular solution, the

   terms of the contractual arrangements must further obligate the party who provides the

   alternative solution to implement actions when required by the Transmission Provider to provide




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   necessary relief.   A Generator alternative may be a new Generator, an existing Generator that is

   made available after the Attachment Y Reliability Study is completed, or an increase to existing

   Generator capacity that has an executed Generator Interconnection Agreement pursuant to

   Attachment X for a Commercial Operation Date that is prior to the commencement of the change

   of status date of the Generation Resource or SCU that has submitted an Attachment Y Notice and

   must be registered as a Generation Resource that is obligated to offer into the market and

   respond to instructions from the Transmission Provider. Contractual commitments associated

   with demand-side resource alternative solutions shall require demonstration to the Transmission

   Provider of an executed contract between LSE or ARC and Energy Consumers as well as

   necessary procedures and protocols for responding to Transmission Provider instructions. Such

   demand-side contracts must be in place by the time that the SSR Agreement alternative solution

   would otherwise need to be committed in order to ensure a timely solution to the identified

   planning need, and must be of a sufficient duration such that a reliable alternative solution can be

   assured. In assessing applicability for SSR status, the Transmission Provider will not require

   continued operation when the continued operation of a portion or all of Generation Resources or

   SCUs would be contrary to applicable law, regulations, or court or agency orders (such as a

   settlement with an environmental agency or a consent decree approved by a court). In

   performing the Attachment Y Reliability Study and the Attachment Y Alternatives Study to an

   SSR Agreement, the Transmission Provider shall collaborate with the affected Transmission

   Owners and NERC-registered Transmission Planners, and if appropriate, may consult with a

   retained consultant. The Transmission Provider will appropriately identify any Confidential

   Information regarding a decision to Suspend before the Transmission Provider transfers such




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   information to any entity. An entity that receives Confidential Information must agree in writing

   to maintain such confidentiality, to comply with any confidentiality obligations owed to

   Transmission Provider under the Tariff or pursuant to a related non-disclosure agreement, and to

   comply with applicable Standards of Conduct found in 18 C.F.R. § 358. The owner of the

   Generation Resource or SCU subject to review under this section shall make good faith efforts to

   minimize the costs to be incurred by seeking any available waivers or exemptions from

   environmental or other regulatory requirements that would necessitate improvements to the

   potential SSR Unit. The Transmission Provider will reasonably assist the owner of a potential

   SSR Unit in working with regulatory agencies to obtain environmental or other waivers or

   exemptions to the extent necessary to maintain the reliability of the Transmission System. For

   purposes of determining whether a Generation Resource or SCU qualifies as an SSR Unit, the

   Transmission Provider will process multiple Attachment Y Notices in the order in which the

   Attachment Y Notices are received. If a subsequent Attachment Y Notice is received before a

   determination is made for a Generation Resource or SCU that is the subject of a prior

   Attachment Y Notice, the Generation Resource or SCU that is the subject of a prior Attachment

   Y Notice will not be the subject of an SSR Agreement to avoid reliability issues caused by the

   subsequently noticed suspension of another Generation Resource or SCU.

          The filing of a SSR Agreement with FERC shall be accompanied by a corresponding

   report on the Attachment Y Reliability Study and the Attachment Y Alternatives Study that

   details the methodologies used, study assumptions, Transmission Owner planning criteria used

   (including when the criteria became effective and the approving regulatory body, if any),

   analysis results, an evaluation of alternatives and the conclusion of the study (including a short




                                                                           Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   explanation of the proposed solution to any reliability issue identified and estimated timetables

   for implementing the preferred solution). An affirmation that the results, in whole or in part,

   from a previously filed report remain applicable may substitute for filing an entirely new report

   on the Attachment Y Reliability Study and the Attachment Y Alternatives Study.

   d.     Modification or Rescission of an Attachment Y Notice.

          (i)     Rescission of an Attachment Y Notice Prior to the Transmission Provider’s

                  Reliability Study Response.

          The Transmission Provider shall notify the owner prior to publicizing the Attachment Y

   Notice and Attachment Y Reliability Study results that the Attachment Y Reliability Study is

   complete. However, the Transmission Provider shall not provide any information related to the

   Attachment Y Reliability Study results to the owner at that time. The owner may rescind its

   Attachment Y Notice by submitting an amended Attachment Y Notice to the Transmission

   Provider stating its intention, not more than fifteen (15) Business Days after receiving notice

   from the Transmission Provider that the Attachment Y Reliability Study is complete. In the

   event of such rescission, the confidentiality of the Attachment Y Notice shall be preserved.

          (ii)    Modification or Rescission of an Attachment Y Notice After the Owner of

                  Generation Resource or SCU Receives the Results of Attachment Y

                  Reliability Study, but Prior to Commencing Suspension, Retirement, or an

                  SSR Agreement.

          (1)     An owner of a Generation Resource or SCU that notifies the Transmission

   Provider in writing of a decision to Suspend, and for which the Transmission Provider has

   determined that the Generation Resource or SCU is not necessary for the reliability of the




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   Transmission System, may rescind its decision to Suspend any time prior to the end of the period

   for rescission following the effective date or may modify the start of the suspension any time

   prior to the original effective date by submitting an amended Attachment Y Notice to the

   Transmission Provider stating its intention. If the revised date for suspension is prior to the

   original date specified in the Attachment Y Notice, a new Attachment Y Notice shall be

   submitted to the Transmission Provider at least four full Quarterly Study Periods prior to the

   effective date of suspension.

          At any time during the Attachment Y Conversion Period, the owner of the Generation

   Resource or SCU for which the Transmission Provider has determined is not necessary for the

   reliability of the Transmission System, may elect to convert the Attachment Y Notice to

   retirement by notifying the Transmission Provider of its intent to waive the right to both rescind

   and modify the Attachment Y Notice. After the owner has waived the right to both rescind and

   modify the Attachment Y Notice, the requested status of the Generation Resource will change to

   Retire, and the interconnection service will be terminated in accordance with Section 38.2.7.k.

   The Attachment Y Notice will no longer be treated as Confidential Information once the owner

   has elected to waive its right to both rescind and modify the Attachment Y Notice and committed

   to retirement of the Generation Resource or SCU.

          (2)     An owner of a Generation Resource or SCU that notifies the Transmission

   Provider in writing of a decision to Suspend, and for which the Transmission Provider has

   determined that the Generation Resource or SCU is required as an SSR Unit may rescind its

   decision to Retire or Suspend or modify the date of suspension at any time while designated as




                                                                           Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                             38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                          59.0.0


   an SSR Unit by submitting an amended Attachment Y Notice specifying the modified effective

   date or stating its decision to rescind.

           At any time during the Attachment Y Conversion Period, the owner of the Generation

   Resource or SCU for which the Transmission Provider has determined is required as an SSR

   Unit may elect to convert the Attachment Y Notice to retirement by notifying the Transmission

   Provider of its intent to waive the right to both rescind and modify the Attachment Y Notice for

   the initial rescission period of the Attachment Y Notice. The owner that provides such

   notification will retain rescission rights (i.e. those additionally acquired by virtue of operating as

   an SSR Unit) only while designated as an SSR Unit after which time the Generation Resource or

   SCU will have a Retire status and the interconnection service will be terminated in accordance

   with Section 38.2.7.k.

           (iii)     Modification or Rescission of an Attachment Y Notice After Commencing a

                     Suspension, Retirement, or an SSR Agreement.

           (1)       An owner of a Generation Resource or SCU that notifies the Transmission

   Provider in writing of a decision to Suspend, and for which the resource has not been designated

   as an SSR Unit or is not continuing to operate pursuant to an SSR Agreement, may rescind its

   decision to Suspend by submitting an amended Attachment Y Notice to the Transmission

   Provider stating its intention to rescind any time during the period for rescission following the

   effective date.

           At any time during the Attachment Y Conversion Period, the owner of the Generation

   Resource or SCU for which the Transmission Provider has determined is not necessary for the

   reliability of the Transmission System, may elect to convert the Attachment Y Notice to




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   retirement by notifying the Transmission Provider of its intent to waive the right to rescind and

   modify the Attachment Y Notice. After the owner has waived the right to rescind, the

   Generation Resource will have a Retire status, and the interconnection service will be terminated

   in accordance with Section 38.2.7.k. The Attachment Y Notice will no longer be treated as

   Confidential Information once the owner has elected to waive their right to rescind and

   committed to retirement of the Generation Resource or SCU.

          (2)     An owner of an SSR Unit may rescind its decision to Suspend or to Retire or

   modify the effective date prior to the termination date of the SSR Agreement by submitting an

   amended Attachment Y Notice specifying the modified effective date or stating its intention to

   rescind. After receiving an amended Attachment Y Notice from an owner of an SSR Unit to

   rescind or modify its decision to Suspend or to Retire, the Transmission Provider will then

   exercise the termination provisions of the SSR Agreement.

          At any time during the Attachment Y Conversion Period, the owner of the Generation

   Resource or SCU for which the Transmission Provider has determined is required as an SSR

   Unit may elect to convert the Attachment Y Notice to retirement by notifying the Transmission

   Provider of its intent to waive the right to both rescind and modify the Attachment Y Notice for

   the initial rescission period of the Attachment Y Notice. The owner that provides such

   notification will retain rescission rights (i.e. those additionally acquired by virtue of operating as

   an SSR Unit) only while designated as an SSR Unit after which time the Generation Resource or

   SCU will have a Retire status and the interconnection service will be terminated in accordance

   with Section 38.2.7.k.

   e.     Refund of Costs.




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


           (i)     If the owner of a Generation Resource or SCU that notifies the Transmission

   Provider of a decision to Suspend and for which the Transmission Provider has not determined

   the Generation Resource or SCU is needed for reliability rescinds an Attachment Y Notice prior

   to commencing suspension, then such owner shall pay the Transmission Provider all of the costs

   that the Transmission Provider incurred in conducting an Attachment Y Reliability Study.

           (ii)    The Market Participant that owns or operates an SSR Unit must refund to the

   Transmission Provider with interest at the FERC-approved rate, all costs, less depreciation, for

   repairs and capital expenditures that were needed to continue operation of the Generation

   Resource or SCU and to meet applicable regulations and other requirements (including

   environmental) while the Generation Resource or SCU was subject to an SSR Agreement if the

   owner: (1) rescinds its decision to Suspend or to Retire the unit while it is designated a SSR; (2)

   rescinds its decision to Suspend following its previous designation as an SSR Unit; or (3) returns

   a unit to service following its previous designation as an SSR Unit and later retirement of the

   unit.

           (iii)   An owner of a Generation Resource or SCU that returns the unit to service upon

   failure to Retire or Suspend according to an Attachment Y Notice (i.e. returns from retirement or

   rescinds the Attachment Y Notice, including a Generation Resource or SCU that was not a SSR

   Unit, a former SSR Unit that no longer operates pursuant to an SSR Agreement, or an SSR Unit)

   will be allocated the total costs of Network Upgrades incurred or financially committed to as of

   the date of the notification of modification of the decision to Retire or Suspend if all the

   following apply:




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                             38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                          59.0.0


               •   the rescission obviates the need for such Network Upgrades that were identified

                   by the Transmission Provider in an Attachment Y Reliability Study;

               •   such Network Upgrades were necessitated solely by the Attachment Y Notice to

                   Suspend; and

               •   such Network Upgrades were approved by the Transmission Provider’s Board of

                   Directors as Attachment FF Appendix A projects.

   The total costs will include all pre-construction costs and interest at the FERC-approved rate.

   Such an owner will also be allocated the costs of expedited construction of such Network

   Upgrades that were approved for purposes other than dealing with needs identified in an

   Attachment Y Reliability Study to the extent that such expedited construction was necessitated

   by the Attachment Y Notice to Suspend.

            In the event that multiple Attachment Y studies identified reliability issues that required

   the Network Upgrades and the owners of the units subject to the studies return their units to

   operation upon failure to Retire or Suspend (i.e. return from retirement or rescind the Attachment

   Y Notices, including Generation Resources and/or SCUs that were not SSR Units, former SSR

   Units that no longer operate pursuant to an SSR Agreement, or SSR Units), the owners will be

   allocated the total costs of such Network Upgrades incurred or financially committed to as of the

   date of notification of the last modification of a decision to Retire or Suspend if all the following

   apply:

               •   the rescission obviates the need for such Network Upgrades that were identified

                   by the Transmission Provider in the Attachment Y Reliability Study;




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


              •   such Network Upgrades were necessitated solely by the Attachment Y Notice to

                  Suspend; and

              •   such Network Upgrades were approved by the Transmission Provider’s Board of

                  Directors as Attachment FF Appendix A projects.

   The total costs will include all pre-construction costs and interest at the FERC-approved rate.

   Such owners will also be allocated the costs of expedited construction of such Network Upgrades

   that were approved for purposes other than dealing with needs identified in an Attachment Y

   Reliability Study to the extent that such expedited construction was necessitated by an

   Attachment Y Notice to Suspend.

          Except as provided in this Section, cost responsibility is assigned only for Network

   Upgrades that are identified to fully alleviate the violations identified in the Attachment Y

   Reliability Study in connection with a change in a plan to Retire or Suspend a Generation

   Resource or SCU. Costs of Network Upgrades that have been identified in the MTEP to address

   Transmission issues other than the issues identified in the Attachment Y Reliability Study of a

   unit that requests suspension will not be allocated to the owner of that unit if such costs of

   construction were not expedited as the result of an Attachment Y Notice to Suspend. In

   accordance with Attachment FF of the Tariff, the estimated costs of such Network Upgrades are

   included in the MTEP when it is approved by the Board of Directors of the Transmission

   Provider for inclusion in the MTEP. The Transmission Provider will solicit from the

   constructing Transmission Owner the actual costs (including the costs of expediting construction,

   and pre-construction costs, if any) incurred or committed to as of the date of notification for the

   last modification of a decision to Retire or Suspend. Each owner shall pay its pro rata share of




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                            38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                         59.0.0


   the incurred or committed Network Upgrade costs, based on the relative Generation Verification

   Test Capacity of each resource whose operation causes the assignment of Network Upgrade

   costs to its owner. The Transmission Provider will promptly notify the responsible owner of

   their share of the total costs once actual costs are determined.

   f.     Execution and Filing of SSR Agreement.

          The Transmission Provider shall enter into an SSR Agreement with the Market

   Participant owning or operating a Generation Resource or SCU that is needed for SSR purposes

   based on the pro forma Attachment Y-1. The SSR Agreement shall state that it incorporates by

   reference the compensation authorized by the Commission. Resources that are ineligible to

   continue operating for legal or regulatory reasons, however, shall not be required to enter into an

   SSR Agreement. If a potential SSR Unit is ineligible or an existing SSR Unit becomes ineligible

   to continue operation, then the Transmission Provider shall seek to minimize the impact to Load

   by operating the Transmission System in the same manner as for any Resource that becomes

   ineligible to continue operation due to Forced Outage.

          The Transmission Provider will file an SSR Agreement with the Commission for

   approval if the Transmission Provider's analysis determines that the Generation Resource or

   SCU is required for reliability of the Transmission System. All potentially affected parties will

   receive notification of such Commission filing. SSR service is a contracted service between the

   Market Participant that owns or operates an SSR Unit and the Transmission Provider and shall

   be for a term of twelve (12) months, unless the Transmission Provider requires a different term.

   The Transmission Provider must have available the entire capacity specified in the SSR

   Agreement of each SSR Unit.




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   g.     Operation of SSR Unit.

          Once the Transmission Provider has entered into an SSR Agreement with a Generation

   Resource or SCU, the Transmission Provider shall have the right to dispatch the SSR Unit at any

   time for reliability of the facilities within the Transmission Provider Region. The Transmission

   Provider shall make every attempt to minimize the use of an SSR Unit for reliability purposes.

   The Transmission Provider will commit the SSR Unit when conditions are identified that require

   the use of the SSR Unit and will make best efforts to minimize the uneconomic commitment of

   the SSR Unit. The SSR Agreement found in Attachment Y-1 to this Tariff shall provide for

   equitable compensation to an SSR Unit when it is dispatched by the Transmission Provider.

   h.     Scheduling Rules for SSR Units.

          The Transmission Provider shall notify Market Participants with SSR Units as to the time

   period of Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, Short-Term

   Reserve, and/or Other Ancillary Services required from each SSR Unit in accordance with

   Section 39.1.5 for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, Section 40.1 for

   Reliability Assessment Commitment processes, and Section 40.1.A.3 Look Ahead Commitment

   processes.

   i.     SSR Unit Participation in Markets.

          A Market Participant may offer Energy or Ancillary Services from SSR Units into the

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, RAC, or Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market during times when the Transmission Provider has not requested the Market

   Participant to run the SSR Unit at full capacity unless this would impair the ability of the SSR




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   Unit to provide the Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability,

   Short-Term Reserve, or Other Ancillary Services when requested by the Transmission Provider.

          Market Participants that own or operate an SSR Unit shall not use the SSR Unit to: (i)

   participate in Interchange Schedules; (ii) except for plant auxiliary Load obligations under the

   SSR Agreement, use the SSR Unit as a Self-Scheduled Resource to submit Self-Schedules for

   Energy and/or Operating Reserve; or (iii) submit Self-Schedules for Other Ancillary Services, if

   applicable, to the extent that Other Ancillary Services are required by the Transmission Provider

   under this Section.

   j.     SSR Unit Compensation.

          (i)     The Market Participant will be compensated for only costs incurred for the

   extended operation as an SSR Unit that do not exceed the full cost-of-service (including the fixed

   cost of existing plant). The hourly component of compensation will be provided as stated in this

   Tariff. For the determination of any additional compensation, the Market Participant shall

   submit a filing to the Commission under Section 205 of the FPA that states the additional

   compensation the Market Participant deems appropriate that is associated with the SSR

   Agreement filed by the Transmission Provider, but the Market Participant shall not separately

   file an SSR Agreement. The Market Participant shall provide the Transmission Provider and the

   Independent Market Monitor with a copy of all compensation-related filings regarding a SSR-

   designated unit.

          (ii)    Any compensation for the SSR Unit will be reduced by payments for operation of

   the SSR Unit, according to the provisions in this Tariff. Monthly compensation under Schedule

   2 of this Tariff and payments under resource adequacy programs (a percentage of such payments




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   to a Market Participant whose generating unit designations are not made) shall be identified in

   the filing for compensation submitted by the Market Participant.

          Hourly compensation will be provided for those hours in which the SSR Unit has Actual

   Energy Injections and the SSR Unit is committed by the Transmission Provider in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or committed by the Transmission Provider in any

   of the RAC processes, or in the Look Ahead Commitment (“LAC”) process, including any

   Reliability Assessment Commitment (“RAC”) process conducted prior to the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market, in which hours the Transmission Provider shall calculate

   the Market Participants’ Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost. For the purposes of this

   calculation, “Production Cost” means the Energy output cost pursuant to Section 39.3.2B Day-

   Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments of the Tariff for commitments by the

   Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or the Energy

   output cost pursuant to Section 40.2.19 Real-Time Sufficiency Guarantee of the Tariff for

   commitments by the Transmission Provider in any of the RAC processes, or in the LAC process,

   including any RAC process conducted prior to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market, of each SSR Unit based upon Start Up, No Load, and Energy Offer cost components that

   reflect the actual costs of physically operating the SSR Unit(s). “Operating Reserve Cost” mean

   the actual cost to provide Operating Reserves. All Production Costs and Operating Reserve

   Costs will be subject to audit by the Transmission Provider, and will be subject to audit and

   enforcement by the Independent Market Monitor.

          Through the Transmission Provider settlement process, the Transmission Provider will

   compare the “SSR Unit Compensation,” which (for each SSR Unit) is equal to the sum of




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                          38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                   Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                       59.0.0


   Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost, to the SSR Unit Energy, Operating Reserve Credit,

   and Short-Term Reserve. The SSR Unit Energy, Operating Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve

   Credit are those charges and credits calculated pursuant to Sections 39.3 Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market, 40.3 Real Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Settlement

   and 40.7 Determination of Inadvertent Energy of the Tariff, plus any revenues from Schedule 2

   associated with the SSR Unit or from Planning Resource designation and any charges assessed

   through Schedule 17 and Schedule 24. In those hours where the SSR Unit Compensation is

   greater than the SSR Unit Energy, Operating Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve Credit for that

   SSR Unit, the Transmission Provider will make the applicable make-whole payment to Market

   Participant (such make-whole payment to be equal to the difference between the SSR Unit

   Compensation and the SSR Unit Energy, Operating Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve Credit).

   In those hours where the SSR Unit Compensation is less than the SSR Unit Energy, Operating

   Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve Credit, the Transmission Provider will debit from Market

   Participant (such debit to be equal to the difference between the SSR Unit Energy, Operating

   Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve Credit and the SSR Unit Compensation). If the SSR Unit

   receives revenue pursuant to Sections 39.3 Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   and 40.3 Real Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Settlement of the Tariff in hours

   other than those described above, the Transmission Provider will debit those revenues from the

   Market Participant.

          (iii)   The Market Participant shall file with the Commission for a Monthly SSR

   Payment for compensation not covered by the hourly compensation stated in the previous sub-

   section. The Market Participant’s filing shall state the requested Monthly SSR Payment along




                                                                        Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   with its sub-components (including amounts for monthly Schedule 2 payments for each SSR

   Unit) and applicable cost support, including an affidavit executed by an officer of the Market

   Participant attesting to the accuracy of the submitted cost information. The Market Participant

   shall provide the Monthly SSR Payment information for each SSR Agreement, including any

   renewals of an SSR Agreement, and may update the information in a Section 205 filing to revise

   such Monthly SSR Payment following any material, unforeseen circumstances affecting the SSR

   Unit that changes the costs incurred by the Market Participant. The Transmission Provider shall

   pay the Market Participant the Monthly SSR Payment as directed by the Commission,

   commencing on the effective date established by the Commission.

          The filing for the additional compensation should evaluate, at a minimum, the following

   factors in negotiating compensation for an SSR Unit: (1) operations and maintenance labor

   expenses directly related to the SSR Unit; (2) administrative expenses directly related to

   employees at the SSR Unit, including employee expenses environmental fees, safety and

   operator training, office supplies, communications, and plant inspection/testing expenses; (3)

   non-labor maintenance expenses, including chemical and materials consumed during

   maintenance of the SSR Unit and rental expenses for maintenance equipment used to maintain

   the SSR Unit; (4) taxes, permit and licensing fees, site security expenses, and insurance; (5)

   carrying charges, including charges for maintaining reasonable levels of inventories of fuel and

   spare parts that result from short-term operating unit decisions based on Good Utility Practice;

   (6) corporate expenses, including those incurred for legal services, environmental reporting, and

   procurement; (7) costs associated with capitalized projects; (8) depreciation, and (9) return on the

   undepreciated plant costs for the SSR Unit.




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   k.     Termination of Interconnection Service.

          Except as provided in Attachment X, the Transmission Provider shall file with the

   Commission to terminate the interconnection service to the Transmission Provider's system held

   by an owner of a Generation Resource or SCU or Pseudo-tied out Generator, that certifies by

   submitting an Attachment Y Notice that it plans to Suspend a Generation Resource or SCU or

   Pseudo-tied out Generator, upon the latter of: (1) the termination of an SSR Agreement; (2) the

   effective date for which the owner has elected to convert the Attachment Y Notice to retirement

   by waiving the right to rescind the decision; or (3) the end of the period for rescission for which

   the owner has not waived the right to rescind. Such termination of interconnection service shall

   be contained in a filing with the Commission and also posted by the Transmission Provider on its

   OASIS to the extent that such interconnection service was filed with the Commission, and shall

   otherwise be terminated by the Transmission Provider by a posting on its OASIS. If the owner

   rescinds or modifies the Attachment Y Notice in accordance with Section 38.2.7.d, the owner of

   such resource may retain its interconnection service and continue to operate after the conclusion

   of an SSR Agreement or the date specified in the Attachment Y Notice.

   l.     Allocation of SSR Unit Costs.

          The costs pursuant to the SSR Agreement shall be allocated to the LSE(s) which

   require(s) the operation of the SSR Unit for reliability purposes.

   m.     Annual Review of SSR Unit Status.

          On at least an annual basis, the Transmission Provider will review Generation Resource

   or SCU characteristics to determine whether the Generation Resource or SCU is qualified to

   remain as an SSR Unit in coordination with a review of the Transmission Provider’s annual




                                                                           Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   regional transmission expansion plan in accordance with Attachment FF. If an SSR Unit

   continues to be required for reliability of the Transmission System, then the Transmission

   Provider will have the unilateral right to negotiate and enter into a subsequent SSR Agreement

   by providing the Market Participant at least ninety (90) days advance notice prior to the

   termination date of the existing SSR Agreement and by negotiating and filing a new SSR

   Agreement at the Commission. If not, the SSR Agreement will expire by its own terms and the

   Generation Resource or SCU will lose its SSR Unit status and will resume suspension in

   accordance with the Attachment Y Notice or Retire. Any subsequent SSR Agreement also shall

   be filed with the Commission.

   n.     Time Limitations on Suspension.

          An owner of a Generation Resource or a SCU or a Pseudo-tied out Generator may

   request suspension pursuant to the provisions of this Section 38.2.7 and remain for a maximum

   of thirty-six (36) cumulative months during any five (5) year period under any combination of

   suspended and SSR-designated statuses. An owner of a Generation Resource or a SCU or a

   Pseudo-tied out Generator that had not exhausted its maximum period may request an additional

   suspension period by submitting a new Attachment Y Notice four full Quarterly Study Periods

   prior to the effective date of the extension period, provided that the combined period is not

   greater than thirty-six (36) months in a five (5) year period. If a Generation Resource or a SCU

   or a Pseudo-tied out Generator does not return to service at the end of the thirty-six (36) month

   maximum suspension period, the Transmission Provider will terminate interconnection service

   of the resource pursuant to Section 38.2.7.

   o.     Non-Binding Informational Studies.




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


            An owner of a Generation Resource or a SCU may complete an Attachment Y-2 to

   request that the Transmission Provider conduct a study to determine whether it is likely that a

   portion or all of such Generation Resource of SCU would qualify as an SSR Unit. The

   Transmission Provider will collaborate with the affected Transmission Owners and NERC-

   registered Transmission Planners, and if appropriate, will consult with a retained consultant to

   evaluate whether the facility is required for the reliability of the Transmission System. The

   Transmission Provider will appropriately identify any Confidential Information regarding a

   decision to Suspend that the Transmission Provider transfers to any entity. An entity that

   receives Confidential Information must agree in writing to maintain such confidentiality, or to

   any confidentiality obligations owed to Transmission Provider under the Tariff or related non-

   disclosure agreement, and to comply with applicable Standards of Conduct found in 18 C.F.R. §

   358. The owner will not be bound to the change of status indicated in an Attachment Y-2

   request. Along with a completed Attachment Y-2, such owner shall submit a study deposit of

   $70,000 to the Transmission Provider for the reasonable costs and expenses of such study. The

   Transmission Provider shall invoice such owner for all costs and expenses incurred in addition to

   the deposit amount, or shall refund any unused portion of such deposit upon completion of the

   study.

            The Transmission Provider will process multiple Attachment Y-2 requests in the order in

   which the Attachment Y-2 requests are received. The Transmission Provider shall use

   reasonable efforts to submit the results of such study to the owner upon its completion within

   150 days of receipt of the deposit and completed Attachment Y-2, unless an alternative period is

   mutually agreed to. The Transmission Provider shall treat Attachment Y-2 as Confidential




                                                                          Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                           38.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    Generation Suspension, Generation Retirement, and System Sup
MODULES                                                                                        59.0.0


   Information. If an owner rescinds an Attachment Y-2 study request, then such owner shall not

   receive the results of the study and the owner shall pay the Transmission Provider all of the costs

   incurred in conducting the study up until the date of such rescission.

          Once a response is provided by the Transmission Provider to the owner, the Transmission

   Provider shall promptly notify the Independent Market Monitor of any Resource that may

   qualify as an SSR Unit. The results of such study will provide the owner with the outcome if the

   owner elects to submit an Attachment Y Notice to request SSR status in the future and does so in

   accordance with Section 38.2.7.p.

          The Transmission Provider shall maintain regional power flow models pursuant to

   Section I.C of Attachment FF, for use by the owner of a Generation Resource or a SCU choosing

   to conduct a study.

   p.     Submission of Attachment Y Notice Following Non-Binding Reliability Studies

          Under Y-2.

          The Attachment Y Notice following a non-binding Y-2 request must be submitted at least

   four full Quarterly Study Periods prior to the date of the planned change of status. The

   Transmission Provider shall conduct the subsequent Attachment Y process consistent with

   timeline and milestones in Section 38.2.7.




                                                                            Effective On: February 1, 2025
MISO                                                                                             38.2.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Consequences
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Failure to comply with any of the requirements and/or provisions of this Tariff shall subject a

   Market Participant to such reasonable charges, penalties, or other remedies or sanctions for non-

   compliance as may be recommended by the Transmission Provider and implemented through

   appropriate Commission proceedings.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                38.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Generation Owners, Load Serving Entities and ARCs
MODULES                                                                                           40.0.0


   Generation Owners, Load Serving Entities, ARCs, and Electric Storage Resource Owners shall

   not be authorized to engage in Market Activities unless these entities are qualified as Market

   Participants. Generation Owners that do not intend to qualify as Market Participants, but intend

   to have the output of their Generation Resources available to the Transmission Provider, shall

   enter into agreements with Market Participants who will employ the output of the Generation

   Resources in support of the Market Participant’s Generation Offers. Such Market Participant

   shall remain financially, and in all other respects liable, to the Transmission Provider for

   service(s) provided by the Generation Resource through the Energy and Operating Reserve

   Markets, pursuant to such arrangements. Load Serving Entities that do not intend to qualify as

   Market Participants, but intend to have their Load served through purchases in the Energy and

   Operating Reserve Markets, shall enter into agreements with Market Participants who may

   submit Demand Bids supported by the Load Serving Entities’ Load. The Market Participant

   shall remain financially, and in all other respects, liable for any service(s) received pursuant to

   such arrangements. Load Serving Entities and ARCs that intend to register and use DRRs,

   LMRs, or EDRs shall fulfill the appropriate requirements of this Tariff. A Market Participant

   may not register any single demand resource as both a DRR and EDR, nor as both an LMR and

   EDR. The Market Participant with DRRs or LMRs has requirements for performance, namely

   taking action to curtail Load or to increase behind the meter generation when Setpoint

   Instructions or Scheduling Instructions are issued by the Transmission Provider, as further

   described in this Tariff. Generation Owners or Load Serving Entities that seek to Pseudo-tie

   generating units or load to an external Balancing Authority must execute the Pseudo-tie

   Agreement included as Attachment FFF-1 or Attachment FFF-2 to this Tariff, as applicable.




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              38.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Generation Owners, Load Serving Entities and ARCs
MODULES                                                                                         40.0.0


   Any executed Pseudo-tie Agreement must be approved by the Transmission Provider before it

   may be effective. An Electric Storage Resource Owner that does not intend to qualify as a

   Market Participant, but intends to have the output of its Electric Storage Resource available to

   the Transmission Provider, shall enter into agreements with a Market Participant who will

   employ the output of the Electric Storage Resources in support of the Market Participant’s

   Electric Storage Resource Offers. Such Market Participant shall remain financially, and in all

   other respects, liable to the Transmission Provider for service(s) provided by the Electric Storage

   Resource through the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, pursuant to such arrangements.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 38.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Market Support Services Providers
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Market Participants may designate Scheduling Agents to conduct for them scheduling and

   scheduling support services. A Scheduling Agent shall not be authorized to settle with the

   Transmission Provider on the underlying transactions for which it provides scheduling or

   scheduling support services. Market Participants may designate MDMA to perform metering

   and metering data management services. An MDMA shall not be authorized to settle with the

   Transmission Provider on the underlying transactions for which it is providing support services.

   Market Participants may designate a Billing Agent to receive and make credits and debits for

   Settlement Statements issued by the Transmission Provider. The Market Participant shall remain

   financially, and in all other respects, liable for all statements received by the Billing Agent on

   behalf of the Market Participant. If a Market Participant is designated to serve as a Scheduling

   Agent, MDMA, and/or Billing Agent for another, or a group of other Market Participants, the

   Market Participant will be required to indicate which Market Participants shall settle with the

   Transmission Provider, and shall remain financially, and in all other respects, liable for the

   submitted transaction.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Load Aggregation
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   A Market Participant may submit Bids for its Load at its Commercial Pricing Node. The

   Commercial Pricing Node can include an aggregation of Elemental Pricing Nodes or a portion of

   Elemental Pricing Nodes all within a single Local Balancing Authority Area. The Transmission

   Provider will maintain a list of defined Elemental Pricing Nodes that comprise Customer Load

   Aggregations for the purpose of forming the aggregated Load Zone. Customer Load

   Aggregations will be settled using Ex Post LMPs for the associated Load Zone. Market

   Participants must submit Energy withdrawal data for Loads to the Transmission Provider using

   the same aggregations that were used in definition of the Load Zone. Market Participants can

   establish Customer Load Aggregations pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Business

   Practices Manuals and must schedule using the established Customer Load Aggregations Load

   Zone. Day-Ahead Schedules for Customer Load Aggregation shall be settled using the same

   Load Zone for the Customer Load Aggregation.

   Market Participants submitting Demand Bids at the Load Zone for the Customer Load

   Aggregation must submit the same information in the same form as described in Section 39.2.2.

   Market Participants are responsible for submitting withdrawal data for each Commercial Pricing

   Node where they represent Load including consumption information for Commercial Pricing

   Nodes defined as Load Zones for Customer Load Aggregation. The Transmission Provider will,

   for Settlement purposes apply any calculated Residual Load in each Local Balancing Authority

   Area to the withdrawal data for the Residual Load Zone in that Local Balancing Authority Area.




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                                38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


          ARCs can register DRR, LMR, and/or EDRs. The resource represented by an ARC will

   be associated with a Commercial Pricing Node.

   A.     Registration

          i.      Information Requirements

          Market Participants can establish resources pursuant to the provisions set forth in the

   Business Practices Manuals. An end use customer account shall be registered as a DRR, LMR,

   or EDR by only one Market Participant. The Transmission Provider will maintain a list of

   defined Elemental Pricing Nodes making up the Commercial Pricing Node that comprise

   injections of customer demand response. Any initial registration of or changes to a DRR, LMR,

   or EDR that an ARC manages, will require the ARC to provide information to the Transmission

   Provider and may be subject to LSE and LBA confirmation and RERRA approval.

          ARC registration will include but not be limited to the following information, for each

   resource:

          ● LSE serving the Load, with relevant contact information as set forth in the Business

               Practices Manuals.

          ● Applicable RERRA(s), with relevant contact information as set forth in the Business

               Practices Manuals.

          ● Local Balancing Authority Area where the Load is located, with relevant contact

               information as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals.

          ● Measurement and Verification procedures selection as specified in Attachment TT or

               Schedule 30.

          ● List of end use customer account number(s) and other relevant customer information,




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                 38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                            35.0.0


                 including the Electric Distribution Company and/or LSE and related account number

                 to identify the unique end use customer(s) comprising each demand asset to be

                 offered by the ARC, as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals.

          ● Maximum level of participation (MW) and location of the DRR, LMR, or EDR being

                 registered.

          ● Contracts that entitle the ARC to operate the demand resource to curtail Load in

                 response to the Transmission Provider’s dispatch.

          ● An attestation by the ARC that it has established and will maintain all necessary

                 arrangements with the RERRA, EDC and/or LSE, as appropriate, and that it and its

                 LMRs comply and will continue to comply with all necessary approvals and

                 arrangements for the DRR, LMR or EDR to participate in the Transmission

                 Provider’s markets consistent with its Tariff and Business Practices Manuals, and will

                 not engage in fraud, market manipulation, or gaming.

          ii.       Process to identify double-counting

          The Transmission Provider will coordinate with relevant parties to assist in the review of

   information provided to determine whether such end use customer is currently registered in the

   Transmission Provider’s markets as part of an existing resource, to avoid the potential of double-

   counting of such end use customer, as set forth in the Business Practices Manual. Proposed

   resources that include one or more end use customers already included in a registered resource

   with the Transmission Provider will be rejected.

          iii.      Notifications and Approvals

          1.        RERRA




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


                 (a)     ARC certification

          To establish eligibility for registration, the ARC must certify the following for each end

   use customer included in the DRR, LMR, or EDR.

          a.     Where the relevant utility distributed more than four million MWh in the prior

                 fiscal year, an ARC must certify that the laws, regulations, or order(s) of the

                 RERRA do not preclude the end use customer from participating directly in the

                 Transmission Provider’s Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, providing

                 Capacity under RAR of the Tariff, or being used as an EDR resource. The ARC

                 may also state whether the RERRA specifically permits such participation by the

                 end use customer; or

          b.     Where the relevant utility distributed four million MWh or less in the prior fiscal

                 year, an ARC must certify that the laws, regulations, or order(s) of the RERRA

                 specifically permit the end use customer to participate directly in the

                 Transmission Provider’s Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, to provide

                 Capacity under RAR of the Tariff, or to be used as an EDR resource.

          If an ARC proposes to register the same end use customer(s) as multiple resource types,

   the Transmission Provider shall review each registration independently.

                 (b)     RERRA notification and approval

          The Transmission Provider will notify the RERRA(s) following the submission of a

   DRR, LMR, or EDR registration by an ARC. Such notification shall include the following

   information as relevant to each resource type: the ARC name, LSE name(s), resource type, end

   use customer account number(s), effective date and termination date and their maximum level of




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                   38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                              35.0.0


   participation, subject to the appropriate protection of any Confidential Information. The

   Transmission Provider will wait ten (10) Business Days before approving such DRR, LMR, or

   EDR registration to allow an opportunity for the RERRA(s) to contest the ARC registration

   provided, however, a RERRA will be able to contest an ARC registration at any time.

          RERRA(s) may elect to notify the Transmission Provider if applicable laws or

   regulations expressly prohibit (for A.iii.1.(a) above) or do not explicitly permit (for A.iii.1.(b)

   above) an end use customer’s participation in the Transmission Provider’s markets. Upon

   receipt of such a notification from the RERRA(s) for ARC registrations subject to section

   A.iii.1(a) above, the Transmission Provider will reject the ARC’s registration. In the event that

   Transmission Provider receives no such notification from the RERRA(s), the relevant section

   A.iii.1(a) ARC registration will not be rejected by Transmission Provider as a result. With

   respect to ARC registrations subject to section A.iii.1(b) above, the Transmission Provider will

   deem the ARC’s registration rejected if the relevant RERRA(s) do not affirmatively notify

   Transmission Provider of acceptance within ten (10) days.

          The Transmission Provider may continue to accept offers from the ARC, unless and until

   the Transmission Provider receives a notification from the RERRA that either (a) rejects the

   certification provided by the ARC, or (b) claims loss of eligibility of one or more end use

   customers included in a resource registered with the ARC. Upon receipt of such a notification,

   the Transmission Provider shall inform the ARC, which shall immediately cease to offer the

   portion of the resources based on end use customers deemed ineligible by the applicable

   RERRA. The ARC shall only be allowed to include in its offer such previously disqualified end

   use customers if the RERRA subsequently notifies the Transmission Provider that the ARC and




                                                                                Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


   relevant end use customers are eligible to participate. Offers tendered and cleared before the

   RERRA provides the Transmission Provider with notice of contested certification will be

   honored. Offers tendered and cleared after the RERRA provides the Transmission Provider with

   notice will not be honored by the Transmission Provider. For offers involving the PRA, once the

   PRA offer window closes all offers tendered will be deemed accepted by the Transmission

   Provider.

          2.      LBA and LSE or EDC

          The LSE or EDC, and LBA will have access to relevant information used by the

   Transmission Provider, subject to the appropriate protection of any Confidential Information.

   The DRR, LMR, or EDR information accessible to the LSE and LBA includes, but is not limited

   to, the following information as relevant to each resource type: ARC name, resource type,

   effective date, termination date, LBA name, LSE name(s), CPNode name, EPNodes that

   comprise the resource, Load Zone CPNode name, end use customer account number(s), meter

   identification number(s), maximum level of participation, Measurement and Verification

   methodology, coincident peak dispatch information for use in Peak Load Contribution

   calculations, legal ownership or contractual relationships with the relevant resource and the ARC

   offering such resource, and RERRA name.

          Upon the submission of a new or change to a DRR, LMR or EDR for approval, the

   contact person(s) identified for the relevant LBA and LSE will receive notification requesting

   them to access the information provided and review their pending tasks. The Transmission

   Provider will provide the LBA and LSE ten (10) Business Days in total to take any necessary

   action(s). In the event that the LBA or LSE does not take action within ten (10) Business Days




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


   of being notified, the registration will be deemed approved by default. The tasks to be performed

   by the LSE and/or LBA shall be set forth in the Business Practices Manuals.

          LBAs will work with the Transmission Provider to review the composition of CPNodes

   proposed by ARCs. The Transmission Provider will provide LBAs with access to the electrical

   location and magnitude of each resource registered by an ARC to perform operational planning

   studies. If the LBA takes no action, the EPNode will be assigned by the Transmission Provider.

   If the LBA confirms the DRR, then the LBA shall identify the EPNode assignment.

          If the LSE takes no action, the Load Zone associated to the DRR, LMR, or EDR will be

   assigned by the Transmission Provider. If the LSE confirms the DRR, LMR, or EDR, then the

   LSE shall identify or approve the Load Zone associated with the DRR, LMR, or EDR.

          During the time that spans the date the ARC submits an addition of or change to a DRR,

   LMR, or EDR, and the time that the addition of or change to a DRR, LMR, or EDR is confirmed

   by both the LSE and LBA, whether explicit or by default, the addition of or change to a DRR,

   LMR, or EDR will be considered unapproved and therefore incapable of participating in the

   applicable Transmission Provider Markets.

          If the LSE or LBA objects to the accuracy of relevant information provided in a new or

   updated DRR, LMR, or EDR registration, then the ARC may work with the relevant LSE or

   LBA to resolve the objection and re-submit the registration for the appropriate registration

   deadline. If the ARC and the LSE or LBA are unable to reach resolution, then the ARC may

   pursue Alternative Dispute Resolution in accordance with Attachment HH.

   B.     Market Activities

          i.      Demand Response Resources




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                        35.0.0


          Market Participants must participate using the established Commercial Pricing Node.

   The Transmission Provider will communicate the quantities of the DRRs cleared in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and/or Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market to the ARC and the applicable LBA. The Transmission Provider will communicate the

   quantities of the DRRs cleared in the Planning Resource Auction to the ARC and the applicable

   LBA.

          The Transmission Provider will provide the LBA in which a DRR has a Day-Ahead

   Schedule information including, but not limited to, the following: the name of the DRR CPNode

   and the MW quantity of the Day-Ahead Schedule for each DRR CPNode.

          ii.    Load Modifying Resources

          The Transmission Provider will communicate the quantities of the LMRs cleared in the

   Planning Resource Auction to the ARC and the applicable LBA. The Transmission Provider

   will communicate the quantities of LMRs issued Scheduling Instructions to the applicable Local

   Balancing Authority when instituting Emergency procedures.

          iii.   Emergency Demand Response Resources

          The Transmission Provider will communicate the quantities of EDR resources offered

   through Schedule 30 protocols to the applicable Local Balancing Authority when instituting

   Emergency procedures.

   C.     Metering

          DRRs, LMRs, and/or EDR resources registered by ARCs must meet the metering

   requirements specified in Module C, Module E-1, Schedule 30, or Attachment TT, as applicable.

   D.     Settlements




                                                                          Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                 38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                            35.0.0


          i.      Demand Response Resources

          The ARC’s day-ahead and real-time transactions will be settled using LMP and/or MCP,

   as applicable, for the Resource’s Commercial Pricing Node, in accordance with Module C.

   ARCs must submit meter data for the DRR to the Transmission Provider using the same

   aggregations that were used in the definition of the asset.

          The DRR settlement information can be viewed by the LSE and LBA via the Market

   Portal once the Hourly Ex Post LMPs are approved. The DRR settlement information accessible

   to the LSE and LBA via the Market Portal includes but is not limited to the: meter data,

   calculated baseline, MW reduction and hourly Dispatch Target for Energy.

          The Transmission Provider shall review the participation of an ARC in the Energy and

   Operating Reserve Markets when the ARC’s settlements are successfully disputed more than ten

   percent (10%) of the time by a relevant LSE.

          The Transmission Provider shall have thirty (30) days to conduct a review pursuant to

   this Section. The Transmission Provider shall refer the matter to the RERRA, and may refer the

   matter to the Independent Market Monitor, if the review indicates the relevant ARC and/or LSE

   is engaging in activity that is inconsistent with the Tariff or Business Practices Manuals.

          DRRs that clear the PRA will be settled in accordance with Module E-1.

          ii.     Load Modifying Resources

          LMRs that clear the PRA will be settled in accordance with Module E-1.

          iii.    Emergency Demand Response Resources

          EDRs will be settled as described in Schedule 30.

   E.     Audit Rights




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                                38.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Aggregators of Retail Customers
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


          The Transmission Provider has the right to audit or verify the information provided by

   the ARC including, but not limited to, information related to the registration, claimed capacity,

   operations, modeling, metering, settlements and/or any other information related to the

   participation of the DRR, LMR or EDR under this Tariff. The ARC shall maintain individual

   end use customer performance data and information related to the registration, claimed capacity,

   operations, modeling, metering, and/or settlements for five (5) years.




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                              38.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                Special Resource Participation Provisions for DRRs
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


   When Demand Response Resources are unable to provide demand response output telemetry to

   the Transmission Provider within specific submission deadlines, their participation in the Energy

   and Operating Reserve Markets will be subject to the provisions set forth for such Resources in

   Section 40.3.4.h.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                         38.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Aggregators of Retail Customers Participation Review Process
MODULES                                                                      32.0.0




                                                  Effective On: September 30, 2020
MISO                                                      38.7
FERC Electric Tariff   Distributed Energy Resource Aggregators
MODULES                                                 36.0.0


          RESERVED




                               Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                38.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Net Benefits Price Threshold
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will, for each Month, determine the Net Benefits Price Threshold in

   accordance with the following procedure.


   1.     The Transmission Provider will initially use historical hourly Real-Time Offers from all

   available Resources, excluding Demand Response Resources, to create price-quantity offer pairs

   reflective of the Transmission Provider's Aggregate Power Supply Curve using these offers in

   conjunction with an index to reflect Outages, and coal and natural gas fuel price data.


          (i)     Explanatory Variables

          The Transmission Provider will develop a mathematical model based upon the

   econometric approach to determine the Net Benefits Supply Curve. The Transmission Provider

   will consider explanatory variables in determining the Net Benefits Supply Curve that affect

   short-term power supply. These variables shall include, but are not limited to, any variable that

   significantly impacts wholesale electricity prices, such as: fuel prices, the Resource Outage

   Index, environmental compliance costs, and the quantity of supply.

          (ii)    Exclusion of Explanatory Variables

          The Transmission Provider may not include potential explanatory variables that are not

   statistically significant in the determination of Net Benefits Supply Curve if a statistical analysis

   results in the Transmission Provider being unable to reject the null hypothesis that the coefficient

   resulting from the econometric analysis is not significantly different from zero, at the five

   percent significance level.

          (iii)   Aggregate Power Supply Curve

          The Transmission Provider will obtain price and quantity data by aggregating the Energy

   Offers made by Market Participants for their Resources. The Transmission Provider accepts



                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Net Benefits Price Threshold
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Energy Offers in pairs that include a given amount of Energy (MWh), and the minimum price for

   providing that amount of Energy. The Transmission will combine these Energy Offers to

   determine an Energy Offer curve for each Resource. After the Transmission Provider has

   determined an Energy Offer curve for each Resource, the Energy Offer curves for all Resources

   are combined to determine the aggregate amount of Energy offered to the market at any given

   price which represents the hourly Aggregate Power Supply Curve. The hourly Aggregate Power

   Supply Curves are averaged across the Operating Day to determine the daily Aggregate Power

   Supply Curve.

          (iv)     Net Benefits Supply Curve

          The set of daily Aggregate Power Supply Curves and explanatory variables selected, as

   described above, are analyzed using econometric techniques. The result of this analysis is a

   mathematical representation of the relationship between Energy, LMP and the selected

   explanatory variables. This mathematical representation, when provided with input values for

   the selected explanatory variables and modeled graphically, is a Net Benefits Supply Curve in

   the Cartesian plane of wholesale electricity prices (LMP) and Energy offered. As such, the Net

   Benefits Supply Curve can then be examined to solve for the Net Benefits Price Threshold. Each

   month, updated values reflecting the most recent available information for the selected

   explanatory variables are input to the econometric results described above, resulting in a new

   representation of the Net Benefits Supply Curve. From each month’s Net Benefits Supply

   Curve, the Net Benefits Price Threshold is determined.

   2.     The Transmission Provider will determine, prior to the 15th of each Month, the Net

   Benefits Price Threshold by using the Net Benefits Supply Curve. The Transmission Provider




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            38.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Net Benefits Price Threshold
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   shall post prior to the 15th of each Month: (1) the Aggregate Power Supply Curve analysis

   described in (1)(iv) above that is updated each Month; (2) the method used to determine the Net

   Benefits Price Threshold; (3) the Net Benefits Price Threshold for the next Month and the

   previous 12 Months; and (4) supporting documentation on its website.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          38.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Demand Response Resource Procedures
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


          An LSE that is a Market Participant that intends to submit Offers for demand response on

   behalf of eligible end use customers must register the asset. The demand response represented

   by a Market Participant shall be deemed an asset for which a Commercial Pricing Node will be

   established. The Transmission Provider will maintain a list of defined Elemental Pricing Nodes

   that comprise injections of customer demand response.

          Market Participants can establish resources pursuant to the provisions set forth in the

   Business Practices Manuals and must schedule using the established Commercial Pricing Node.

   DRR registration by the LSE serving the Load will include but not be limited to the following

   information, for each resource: (i) LSE serving the Load; (ii) Local Balancing Authority Area

   where the Load is located; (iii) Measurement and Verification procedures; (iv) list of end use

   customer accounts that are part of the Demand Response Resources being registered, including

   names and addresses of such end use customers; and (v) maximum level of participation of each

   registered asset. The Market Participant must demonstrate to the Transmission Provider’s

   satisfaction that the Market Participant may operate the demand resource with how it is described

   and offered, including but not limited to any contractual relationship that specifies what the end-

   use customer is providing to the Market Participant. A copy of a contract with an end-use

   customer will not be required if the Market Participant can demonstrate to the Transmission

   Provider’s satisfaction that it owns or is the end-use customer.

          DRR information will be made available to the LBA as soon as an addition of or change

   to a DRR is submitted for approval. The DRR information will be provided by the LSE and

   accessible to the LBA including, but is not limited to, the following type of information: resource

   type, DRR owner name, DRR effective date, DRR termination date, LBA name, LSE name,




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          38.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Demand Response Resource Procedures
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


   DRR Commercial Pricing Node name, LSE Commercial Pricing Node name, address,

   controllable load or behind the meter generation capability and method for achieving its

   performance, Measurement and Verification methodology, and EPNodes that comprise the DRR.

          The DRR settlement information can be viewed by the LSE and/or LBA via the Market

   Portal once the Hourly Ex Post LMPs are approved. The DRR settlement information accessible

   to the LSE and LBA via the Market Portal includes but is not limited to the: meter data,

   calculated baseline, MW reduction and hourly Dispatch Target for Energy.

          Process to identify double-counting: The Transmission Provider will coordinate with

   relevant parties to assist in the review of information provided to determine whether such retail

   customer is currently registered as part of an existing demand asset, to avoid the potential of

   double-counting of such demand asset, as set forth in the Business Practices Manual. Proposed

   demand assets that are already registered with the Transmission Provider will be rejected.

          The Transmission Provider will reject demand assets that are double-counted.

          The Transmission Provider will provide the LBA in which a DRR has a Day-Ahead

   Schedule information including, but will not be limited to, the following information: the name

   of the DRR CPNode and the MW quantity of the Day-Ahead Schedule for each DRR CPNode.

          Audit Rights: The Transmission Provider has the right to audit or verify the information

   provided by the LSE including, but not limited to, any and all information related to the

   registration, ownership or contractual relations, claimed capacity, operations, modeling,

   metering, settlements and/or any other information related to the participation of the DRR, LMR

   or EDR under this Tariff. The LSE shall maintain individual end use customer performance data




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         38.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Demand Response Resource Procedures
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


   and information related to the registration, claimed capacity, operations, modeling, metering,

   and/or settlements for five (5) years.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                              38.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Treatment of Grandfathered Agreements
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   All parties to Grandfathered Agreements that choose to maintain such agreements and not

   convert to Transmission Service under this Tariff shall be subject to the following provisions.

   Carved-Out GFAs shall be subject to Section 38.8.4 of this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.8.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             GFA Responsible Entity
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   a.     Parties to Grandfathered Agreements shall inform the Transmission Provider who will be

          the GFA Responsible Entity, within the time frame set forth in Section 38.2.5.i.

   b.     The GFA Responsible Entity must be a fully qualified Market Participant under this

          Tariff.

   c.     The GFA Responsible Entity shall be financially responsible pursuant to the applicable

          GFA for:

          i.        All Market Activities charges, as well as all charges under Schedules 16 and 17;

          ii.       All Transmission Usage Charges caused by the applicable transactions; and

          iii.      Any debits or credits associated with ARRs or FTRs held by the GFA

                    Responsible Entity.




                                                                            Effective On: January 7, 2017
MISO                                                                                          38.8.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           GFA Scheduling Entity
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   a.     All entities operating pursuant to Grandfathered Agreements shall designate a GFA

          Scheduling Entity within the time frame set forth in Section 38.2.5.i. The GFA

          Scheduling Entity shall submit GFA Schedules consistent with the provisions set forth

          herein for any sales and/or purchases of Energy pursuant to the Grandfathered

          Agreement.

   b.     The GFA Scheduling Entity responsible for submitting such GFA Schedules shall either

          be the GFA Responsible Entity or a Scheduling Agent designated by the GFA

          Responsible Entity.




                                                                        Effective On: January 7, 2017
MISO                                                                                          38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff                           Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Market Participant Applicants that are party to Grandfathered

                       Agreement(s) and intend to maintain service under such agreements shall

                       select one of three options for scheduling and settlement of Costs of

                       Congestion and Costs of Losses resulting in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                       Operating Reserve Market and shall so notify the Transmission Provider

                       in writing:

                              a.      Option A.

                                      i.     Treatment of ARRs and FTRs: The GFA

                                             Responsible Entity shall be entitled to nominate the

                                             Capacity under the Grandfathered Agreement(s) for

                                             allocation of ARRs pursuant to the procedures set

                                             forth in Section 43.1.2. The GFA Responsible

                                             Entity shall be allocated ARRs, shall hold the ARRs

                                             and shall be responsible for all credits, debits,

                                             rights, and responsibilities associated with the

                                             ARR(s) as set forth in Section 42. The GFA

                                             Responsible Entity may self-schedule the ARRs in

                                             the annual FTR Auction to convert the ARRs to

                                             FTRs.

                                      ii.    Treatment of Transmission Congestion: The

                                             Transmission Provider shall charge the GFA

                                             Responsible Entity the Cost of Congestion for all




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff                 Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                             30.0.0


                                   transactions pursuant to Dispatch Instruction or

                                   Day-Ahead Schedules based on the designated

                                   Internal Delivery Points or GFA Schedule Receipt

                                   Points and GFA Schedule Delivery Points for the

                                   Grandfathered Agreement(s), as set forth in Section

                                   39.3.3 and 40.4.

                            iii.   Treatment of Transmission Losses: The GFA

                                   Responsible Entity shall be assessed the Cost of

                                   Losses for all transactions pursuant to the

                                   Grandfathered Agreement(s) based on the

                                   designated Internal Delivery Points or GFA

                                   Schedule Receipt Point and GFA Schedule Delivery

                                   Point, as set forth in Section 39.3.3 and 40.4.

                       b.   Option B.

                            i.     Treatment of ARRs and FTRs. The GFA

                                   Responsible Entity will not nominate or receive

                                   ARRs nor be eligible for conversion of FTRs in the

                                   annual FTR Auction for the Capacity under the

                                   GFA, but will instead receive a refund of the Cost

                                   of Congestion resulting from the Day-Ahead

                                   Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                                   Operating Reserve Market. The GFA Responsible




                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff           Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                       30.0.0


                             Entity shall be responsible for the Transmission

                             Provider’s administrative costs associated with

                             accounting for the ARRs and FTRs under this

                             option as set forth in Schedule 16 of this Tariff.

                       ii.   Treatment of Transmission Congestion. The

                             Transmission Provider shall charge the GFA

                             Responsible Entity the Cost of Congestion for all

                             transactions pursuant to the Grandfathered

                             Agreement(s) based on the designated Internal

                             Delivery Point or the GFA Schedule Receipt Point

                             and the GFA Schedule Delivery Point under the

                             Grandfathered Agreement(s) but shall credit back

                             the full amount of the Cost of Congestion resulting

                             from Day-Ahead Schedules cleared in the Day-

                             Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market to the

                             GFA Responsible Entity. This refund will only be

                             provided if the GFA Scheduling Entity submits a

                             GFA Schedule according to the procedures

                             specified in Section 39.1.4 for the Day-Ahead

                             Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the

                             Grandfathered Agreement transaction(s) prior to the

                             closing of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating




                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff           Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                       30.0.0


                              Reserve Market, consistent with the Internal

                              Delivery Point or, the GFA Schedule Receipt Point

                              and the GFA Schedule Delivery Point, and within

                              the maximum MW Capacity permissible under the

                              Grandfathered Agreement. In the event that there

                              results a revenue inadequacy, the Transmission

                              Provider shall fully compensate the GFA

                              Responsible Entity for the Costs of Congestion.

                              The revenue inadequacy shall be funded through an

                              assessment of debits on all Market Participants on a

                              pro-rata basis, based on their Market Load Ratio

                              Share. The Transmission Provider shall account for

                              Grandfathered Agreements under Option B in the

                              Annual ARR Allocation and annual FTR Auction

                              processes, but shall not actually allocate ARRs or

                              assign FTRs to the GFA Responsible Entity. The

                              Transmission Provider shall not provide a

                              preference to ARRs or FTRs associated with Option

                              B Grandfathered Agreements held by the

                              Transmission Provider.

                       iii.   Treatment of Transmission Losses. The

                              Transmission Provider shall charge the GFA




                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff    Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                30.0.0


                       Responsible Entity the Cost of Losses for all

                       transactions under the Grandfathered Agreement

                       based on the designated Internal Delivery Point or

                       GFA Schedule Receipt Point and GFA Schedule

                       Delivery Point, as set forth in Section 39.3.3 and

                       40.4. The Transmission Provider shall credit back

                       to the GFA Responsible Entity the difference

                       between Marginal Losses and System Losses at the

                       designated Internal Delivery Points or GFA

                       Schedule Receipt Point and GFA Schedule Delivery

                       Point. The difference between Marginal Losses and

                       System Losses shall be determined by dividing the

                       amount of Marginal Losses for a transaction by two

                       (2), consistent with the procedures described in the

                       Business Practices Manuals. This refund will only

                       be provided if the GFA Scheduling Entity submits a

                       transaction for the Grandfathered Agreement

                       transaction(s) the day prior to the Operating Day,

                       consistent with the source and sink point and within

                       the maximum MW Capacity permissible under the

                       Grandfathered Agreement. GFA Responsible

                       Entities that receive such reimbursement for GFA




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff                 Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                             30.0.0


                                   transactions shall not receive an allocation of the

                                   Local Balancing Authority Marginal Losses Surplus

                                   Share.

                       c.   Option C.

                            i.     Treatment of ARRs and FTRs. The GFA

                                   Responsible Entity will not nominate nor receive an

                                   allocation of ARRs nor be eligible for conversion to

                                   FTRs in the annual FTR Auction for the Capacity

                                   under the GFA.

                            ii.    Treatment of Transmission Congestion. The

                                   Transmission Provider shall charge the GFA

                                   Responsible Entity the Cost of Congestion for all

                                   transactions pursuant to the Grandfathered

                                   Agreement(s) based on the designated Internal

                                   Delivery Points, or GFA Schedule Receipt Point

                                   and GFA Schedule Delivery Points for the

                                   Grandfathered Agreement(s), as set forth in Section

                                   39.3.3 and 40.4.

                            iii.   Treatment of Transmission Losses: The GFA

                                   Responsible Entity shall be assessed the Marginal

                                   Losses Component for all transactions pursuant to

                                   the Grandfathered Agreement(s) based on the




                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                   38.8.3
FERC Electric Tariff    Optional Treatment of Transactions Pursuant to GFAs
MODULES                                                                30.0.0


                       designated Internal Delivery Points, or the GFA

                       Schedule Receipt Point and GFA Schedule Delivery

                       Point, as set forth in Section 39.3.3 and 40.4. GFA

                       Responsible Entities receiving such assessment for

                       Marginal Losses shall receive an allocation of

                       excess marginal losses revenue based on the

                       Marginal Losses Surplus Share.




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                  38.8.3(A)
FERC Electric Tariff               Treatment of Grandfathered Agreements Added to Attachment P
MODULES                                                                                  30.0.0


       Treatment of Grandfathered Agreements Added to Attachment P of the Tariff:

                                       Grandfathered Agreements added to Attachment P of

                                    the Tariff after September 16, 2004 shall be subject to the

                                    following treatment:

                                       a. Grandfathered Agreements subject to a just and

                                           reasonable standard of review must choose:

                                           i.      Option A or Option C treatment under the

                                                   Tariff; or



                                           ii.     Full conversion to service under the Tariff.

                                       b. Grandfathered Agreements shall be carved out of

                                           the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, and

                                           shall be subject only to Section 38.8.4 of the Tariff,

                                           to the extent that:

                                            i.     They are subject to the public interest

                                                   standard of review;

                                            ii.    They are silent on the applicable standard of

                                                   review; or

                                            iii.   They provide for transmission service by an

                                                   entity that is not a public utility.



                                    However, parties to Carved-Out Grandfathered Agreements




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                      38.8.3(A)
FERC Electric Tariff   Treatment of Grandfathered Agreements Added to Attachment P
MODULES                                                                      30.0.0


                        may voluntarily choose Option A or Option C treatment

                        under the Tariff, or fully convert to service under the Tariff,

                        as described in Section 38.8.3A.a above. Parties that make

                        such a choice or conversion cannot revert to carved-out

                        status. Notwithstanding the foregoing, carved-out

                        treatment under this paragraph b shall not be available to

                        Grandfathered Agreements added to Attachment P of the

                        Tariff effective on or after November 1, 2009, that involve

                        service to an Affiliate or an owner-member of the

                        Transmission Owner. Option A or Option C treatment

                        shall be available to parties to such Grandfathered

                        Agreements.




                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           38.8.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Carved Out GFAs
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


          Carved-Out GFAs shall be subject to the following requirements and be entitled to the

   following treatment.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.8.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Registration and Provision of Other Data.
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


          The parties to Carved-Out GFAs shall provide the Transmission Provider with the data

   required to administer and implement the terms of this Section 38.8.4, including information

   with respect to the billing entity, the entity responsible for providing scheduling of Energy, the

   entity responsible for providing scheduling of Operating Reserve, if applicable, the specific

   Resources that will be providing Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve and/or Supplemental

   Reserve to meet the Carved-Out GFA Operating Reserve obligations, if applicable, GFA

   number, OASIS page and OASIS Transmission Service Reservation number, maximum

   Capacity, Commercial Pricing Node source(s), and sink(s), total Capacity for each such Carved-

   Out GFA and any other necessary information required by the Transmission Provider. All LSEs

   located in the Transmission Provider's Balancing Authority Area, including the parties to

   Carved-Out GFAs, and agreements administered as Carved-Out GFAs, shall comply with all

   RAR. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties to a Carved-Out GFA, the billing entity is the

   Transmission Owner or ITC Participant.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       38.8.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 FTR Treatment.
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


          The maximum Capacity associated with each Carved-Out GFA shall be reflected in

   Transmission Provider’s FTR allocation model in a manner that reflects expected transmission

   usage under Carved-Out GFAs. The Transmission Provider shall not provide a preference to

   ARRs or FTRs associated with Carved-Out GFAs.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            38.8.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Scheduling of Transactions.
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


          The parties to Carved-Out GFAs shall provide the Transmission Provider with non-

   binding Day-Ahead Schedules under such Agreements and non-binding Day-Ahead Schedules

   for Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve and/or Supplemental Reserve under such Agreements,

   if applicable, in accordance with the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market close

   timelines set forth in Section 39.2.9 of the Tariff. The information provided shall include:

   Generation Offer, Regulating Capacity Offer or Self-Schedule, Regulating Mileage Offer,

   Spinning Reserve Offer or Self-Schedule and/or Supplemental Reserve Offer or Self-Schedule,

   and Demand Bid information as well as relevant data on transactions involving Carved-Out

   GFAs in the form of a tag entered into the Transmission Provider’s schedule system and into the

   Interchange Distribution Calculator. Carved-Out GFA schedules and Generation Offers,

   Regulating Capacity Offers or Self-Schedules, Regulating Mileage Offer, Spinning Reserve

   Offers or Self-Schedules and/or Supplemental Reserve Offers or Self-Schedules submitted in the

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market may be updated in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market according to the provisions set forth in Section 40.2.3 of the Tariff.

   The difference between the Day-Ahead and Real-Time schedules associated with Carved-Out

   GFAs shall be excluded from the Real-Time energy and Operating Reserve imbalance settlement

   of the pertinent generation or load asset. Where necessary, tags shall be curtailed using

   applicable TLR procedures.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      38.8.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Inclusion in RAC and LAC Processes.
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


          Carved-Out GFA schedules and related Offers and/or Self-Schedules shall be

   incorporated into the RAC and the LAC processes in the same manner as other schedules.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           38.8.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Settlement of Imbalances.
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


                 Carved-Out GFAs must observe Real-Time scheduling requirements established

          in Section 40.2.3. Where generation schedules, Load and cleared Operating Reserve

          schedules are balanced in Real-Time, deviations from Day-Ahead Schedules resulting in

          Real-Time transmission schedule imbalance and/or real-time Operating Reserve schedule

          imbalance shall not clear in the Real-Time spot market. Where Load and generation are

          not balanced in Real-Time, excess generation over Load or excess Load over generation

          will settle as a spot Energy sale or purchase at the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP.

          Where cleared Regulating Reserve, cleared Spinning Reserve and cleared Supplement

          Reserve on GFA Resources is less than the Carved-Out GFA’s Regulating Reserve,

          Spinning Reserve and Supplemental Reserve Obligations, the Carved-Out GFA billing

          entity will be charged for a spot purchase of the shortfall in accordance with Schedules 3,

          5 and 6. Generation schedules related to Carved-Out GFAs are subject to the settlement

          provisions set forth in Section 40.3.4 of this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                       38.8.4.6
FERC Electric Tariff                          Market Settlement and Exemption from Certain Charges
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


          Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 38.8, Carved-Out GFAs or agreements

   administered as Carved-Out GFAs shall not be subject to any charges under this Tariff except

   Schedules 3, 5, 6, 10, 17, 18, and 51 charges. Parties to Carved-Out GFAs or agreements

   administered as Carved-Out GFAs shall be subject to Capacity Deficiency Charges in Section

   69A.10.




                                                                      Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                      38.8.4.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Market Monitoring and Mitigation.
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


          Carved-Out GFAs shall be subject to monitoring by the IMM, and to the provisions of the

   Tariff incorporating Market Behavior Rule 2.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              38.8.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Transition Period
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


          The treatment of the Grandfathered Agreements and Carved-Out GFAs as set forth in this

   Section 38.8.5 shall terminate no earlier than February 1, 2008, and thereafter upon acceptance

   by the Commission of new provisions governing treatment of GFAs. No later than twenty-four

   (24) months prior to February 1, 2008, the Transmission Provider shall begin its evaluation of

   the impact on the Energy Market and comparable access to Transmission Service related to the

   optional treatments available to Grandfathered Agreements. No later than twelve (12) months

   prior to February 1, 2008, the Transmission Provider shall file a new proposal for treatment of

   the remaining Grandfathered Agreements.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                              38.9
FERC Electric Tariff                    Confidentiality
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                       Access to Confidential Information by Market Participants an
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   Access to Confidential Information by Market Participants and Others.

   a)     Non-Disclosure of Confidential Information. No Market Participant shall have a right

   hereunder to receive or review any documents, data, or other information of another Market

   Participant, including documents, data, or other information provided to the Transmission

   Provider, to the extent such documents, data, or information have been designated as confidential

   pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Transmission Provider specified in the Business

   Practices Manuals, or to the extent that they have been designated as confidential by such other

   Market Participant; provided, however, a Market Participant may receive and review any

   composite documents, data, and other information that may be developed based on such

   confidential documents, data, or information if the composite does not disclose any individual

   Market Participant’s Confidential Information.

   b)     Confidential Information Procedures. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 38.9,

   54.3 and 54.4 of this Tariff, the Transmission Provider shall not disclose to Market Participants

   or to third parties, any documents, data, or other information of a Market Participant or a Market

   Participant Applicant, to the extent such documents, data, or other information has been

   designated as Confidential Information pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Transmission

   Provider specified in the Business Practices Manuals, or by such Market Participant, or Market

   Participant Applicant; provided, however, that third parties requesting disclosure of information

   designated as “Confidential Information” may challenge the designation pursuant to procedures

   specified in the Business Practices Manuals; provided, further, that nothing contained herein

   shall prohibit the Transmission Provider from providing any such Confidential Information to its

   agents, representatives, or contractors to the extent that such person or entity is bound by an




                                                                            Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                                                  38.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                            Access to Confidential Information by Market Participants an
MODULES                                                                                               32.0.0


   obligation to maintain such confidentiality. The Transmission Provider shall collect and use

   Confidential Information only in connection with its authority under this Tariff and the retention

   of such information shall be in accordance with the Transmission Provider’s data retention

   policies.

   c)       Authorization by Market Participant to Release its Confidential Information.

   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Transmission Provider from releasing a Market

   Participant’s Confidential Information to a third party provided that the Market Participant has

   delivered to the Transmission Provider specific, written authorization for such release setting

   forth:

            i.         the data or information to be released;

            ii.        to whom such release is authorized; and

            iii.       the period of time for which such release shall be authorized (including a period

                   specified as ending with withdrawal of authorization).

   The Transmission Provider shall limit the release of a Market Participant’s Confidential

   Information to that specific authorization received from the Market Participant. Nothing herein

   shall prohibit a Market Participant from withdrawing such authorization upon written notice to

   the Transmission Provider who shall cease such release as soon as practicable after receipt of

   such withdrawal notice.




                                                                               Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                                           38.9.1(A)
FERC Electric Tariff                         Disclosure of Certain Confidential Market Participant Data t
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


   Disclosure of Certain Confidential Market Participant Data to Balancing Authorities,

   Transmission Operators; other Regional Transmission Organizations or Independent

   System Operators; and Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Operators, Natural Gas Local

   Distribution Companies, and/or Intrastate Natural Gas Pipeline Operators.

   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Transmission Provider from providing certain

   reliability-related Market Participant Confidential Information to the entities described in this

   Section 38.9.1(A) to the extent that the Transmission Provider determines, in its reasonable

   discretion, that the provision of such information is required to enhance and/or maintain

   reliability within the Transmission Provider Region and its neighboring Balancing Authority

   Areas, consistent with the Balancing Authority Agreement; and any such receiving entity is

   bound by a written agreement to maintain such confidentiality as set forth below. Such

   reliability-related Confidential Information shall be limited to the following data that the

   Transmission Provider utilizes to arrive at its market and reliability solutions:

   a)     Data That May Be Provided to Local Balancing Authorities. The Local Balancing

   Authority shall receive data as specified in Section 4.6 of the Balancing Authority Agreement,

   subject to the confidentiality provisions specified in Section 9 of the Balancing Authority

   Agreement;

   b)     Data That May Be Provided to Transmission Operators. To enable them to perform

   local reliability analysis, Transmission Operators shall be provided with the following hourly

   information for their respective operational areas and adjacent areas, updated with each

   execution of RAC; provided that the Transmission Operator enters into a written agreement,

   substantially in the form of Attachment Z (Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement) of




                                                                                 Effective On: July 5, 2017
MISO                                                                                          38.9.1(A)
FERC Electric Tariff                        Disclosure of Certain Confidential Market Participant Data t
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


   this Tariff to maintain the confidentiality of such information. The Transmission Provider’s staff

   shall work with the Transmission Operators to determine the format of the data provided (portal

   reports, XML, or both):

          i.      MISO Balancing Authority Load Forecast;

          ii.     Commitment status (each Generator);

          iii.    Day-Ahead Schedules for all Resources;

          iv.     Total Generation within applicable area assumed available for the RAC based

                  upon Offers;

          v.      Forecast commitment status used so that the Transmission Operator can determine

                  what units are anticipated to be offline but available for the remaining part of the

                  day; and

          vi.     Binding constraints that impact the MISO Balancing Authority Area;

   c)     Data That May Be Provided to another Regional Transmission Organization or

   Independent System Operator. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Transmission

   Provider or its designated agents, representatives, or contractors from providing to another

   Regional Transmission Organization (“RTO”) or Independent System Operator (“ISO”), upon

   their request, the complete electronic tags (“e-Tags”) of an e-Tag Author or Balancing Authority

   (defined as those terms are used in FERC Order No. 771) for intra-region transactions and

   interchange transactions scheduled to flow into, out of or through the Transmission Provider’s

   region, to the extent such RTO or ISO has requested such information as part of its investigation

   of possible market violations or market design flaws, to the extent that such RTO or ISO is

   bound by a tariff provision requiring that the e-Tag data be maintained as confidential or, in the




                                                                                Effective On: July 5, 2017
MISO                                                                                           38.9.1(A)
FERC Electric Tariff                         Disclosure of Certain Confidential Market Participant Data t
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


   absence of a tariff requirement governing confidentiality, a written agreement with the

   Transmission Provider consistent with FERC Order No. 771 and any clarifying orders and

   implementing regulations; and

   d)     Data That May Be Provided to Interstate Natural Gas Pipeline Operators, Natural

   Gas Local Distribution Companies, and/or Intrastate Natural Gas Pipeline Operators. To

   the extent permitted pursuant to 18 C.F.R. § 38.2 (as may be amended from time to time),

   nothing contained herein shall prevent the Transmission Provider from providing non-public,

   operational information for the purpose of promoting reliable service or operational planning to

   the following entities, subject to a receiving entity being bound by the appropriate written non-

   disclosure agreement(s) with the Transmission Provider to maintain the confidentiality of the

   information:

          i.      Interstate natural gas pipeline operators.

          ii.     Natural gas local distribution companies and/or intrastate natural gas pipeline

                  operators, as appropriate, provided that Confidential Information regarding a

                  specific generator will be shared only with the pipeline(s) directly serving that

                  generator.

   The written non-disclosure agreement shall prohibit the receiving entity from illegal and non-

   legitimate use of the non-public, operational information. This prohibition includes the use of

   anyone as a conduit for disclosure of non-public, operational information received from the

   Transmission Provider to a third party or to the receiving entity’s marketing function employees,

   or use of such information in an unduly discriminatory or preferential manner, or to the detriment

   of any natural gas and/or electric market. Any non-public, operational information the




                                                                               Effective On: July 5, 2017
MISO                                                                                           38.9.1(A)
FERC Electric Tariff                         Disclosure of Certain Confidential Market Participant Data t
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


   Transmission Provider receives from the above entities pursuant to this section shall also be

   subject to the confidentiality protection provisions set forth in Section 38.9 and other relevant

   provisions of this Tariff.

   e)        Form of Data. The foregoing Confidential Information may also be provided by MISO

   in any other appropriate electronic or similar form(s) or format(s) that may be developed in the

   future.




                                                                                Effective On: July 5, 2017
MISO                                                                                          38.9.1(B)
FERC Electric Tariff                            Disclosure of Certain Credit Information to Other RTOs
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


   Disclosure, Receipt, and Use of Certain Credit and Credit-Related Information with FERC

   Jurisdictional Regional Transmission Organizations and Independent System Operators

   a.)    Pursuant to FERC Order No. 895, nothing shall prevent the Transmission Provider or its

          designated agents, representatives, or contractors, from providing any credit or credit-

          related information of a Market Participant, Member of the Transmission Provider, or

          Applicant, or any Affiliate thereof, to another FERC jurisdictional Regional Transmission

          Organization (“RTO”) or Independent System Operator (“ISO”), at its discretion, for the

          purpose of credit risk management and mitigation.

   b.)    The Transmission Provider shall use credit and credit-related information received from

          another RTO or ISO in the same manner that it uses such information obtained from its

          own Market Participants, Members, Applicants, or Affiliates thereof.

   c.)    The Transmission Provider will treat credit and credit-related information received from

          another RTO or ISO as Confidential Information regardless of whether it was designated

          as such pursuant to Section 38.9.1(b). Further no third-party may receive disclosure

          based on any challenge to the appropriateness of the designation.




                                                                              Effective On: July 26, 2024
MISO                                                                                               38.9.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Required Disclosure
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   Required Disclosure Other than for Commission Proceedings or Investigations.

   a)     Notwithstanding anything in Section 38.9.1 to the contrary, and subject to the provisions

   of Section 38.9.3 and Section 38.9.4, if a Market Participant or the Transmission Provider is

   required by applicable law, or in the course of administrative or judicial proceedings other than

   Commission proceedings or investigations, to disclose to third parties other than the Commission

   or its staff, information that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this

   Tariff, that Market Participant or the Transmission Provider may disclose such information. As

   soon as the Market Participant or the Transmission Provider learns of the disclosure requirement

   and prior to making disclosure, that Market Participant or the Transmission Provider shall notify

   the affected Market Participant(s) of the requirement and the terms thereof and the affected

   Market Participant(s) may direct, at their sole discretion and cost, any challenge to or defense

   against the disclosure requirement.

          The disclosing Market Participant and the Transmission Provider shall cooperate with

   such affected Market Participant(s) to the maximum extent practicable to minimize the

   disclosure of the information consistent with applicable law.

          Each Market Participant and the Transmission Provider shall cooperate with the affected

   Market Participant(s) to obtain proprietary or confidential treatment of such information by the

   person to whom such information is disclosed prior to any such disclosure.

   b)     Nothing in this Section 38.9 shall prohibit or otherwise limit the Transmission Provider’s

   use of information covered herein if such information was: (i) previously known to the

   Transmission Provider without an obligation of confidentiality; (ii) independently developed by

   or for the Transmission Provider using non-Confidential Information; (iii) acquired by the




                                                                            Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                                              38.9.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Required Disclosure
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   Transmission Provider from a third party which is not, to the Transmission Provider’s

   knowledge, under an obligation of confidence with respect to such information; and (iv) which is

   or becomes publicly available other than through a manner inconsistent with this Section 38.9.

   c)     The Transmission Provider shall impose on any contractors retained to provide technical

   support or otherwise to assist with the implementation or administration of this Tariff a

   contractual duty of confidentiality consistent with the provisions of this Tariff. A Market

   Participant shall not be obligated to provide confidential or proprietary information to any

   contractor that does not assume such a duty of confidentiality, and the Transmission Provider

   shall not provide any information designated as confidential pursuant to this Tariff to any such

   contractor without the express written permission of the Market Participant providing the

   information.

   d)     Section 38.9.2.a) does not apply to disclosure of information to an agency/organization or

   the staff of an agency/organization that is the subject of Section 38.9.3.a).




                                                                             Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                                             38.9.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Disclosure to Specified Agencies/Organizations
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   Disclosure to Specified Agencies/Organizations.

   a)     Specified Agencies/Organizations and Treatment of Confidential Information.

   Notwithstanding any provisions of this Section 38.9 to the contrary:

           i.     If the Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (‘CFTC”), or

                  the staff of one of those agencies, during the course of an investigation or

                  otherwise, requests information from the Transmission Provider that is otherwise

                  required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to this Tariff, the Transmission

                  Provider shall provide the requested information to the agency or its staff within

                  the time provided for in the request for information. Should the Transmission

                  Provider require additional time to provide the information requested due to

                  logistical matters such as the volume of information requested or technical

                  complexity involved, the Transmission Provider will promptly communicate that

                  need to the individual requesting the information and they shall establish the time

                  for production of the requested information.

          ii.     The Transmission Provider may provide information that is otherwise required to

                  be maintained in confidence pursuant to this Tariff to any federal agency that has

                  cyber-security responsibilities under federal law and/or regulations for the

                  protection of entities outside the federal agency itself, such as the National Cyber

                  Communication Information Center (“NCCIC,” part of the Department of

                  Homeland Security), or the federal agency’s staff to the extent that the

                  Transmission Provider determines, in its reasonable discretion, that the provision

                  of such information responds to a Cyber Exigency. The Transmission Provider



                                                                            Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                                               38.9.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Disclosure to Specified Agencies/Organizations
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


                  will provide the information subject to agreement that the federal agency may

                  only share Confidential Information with agencies/organizations in the U.S.

                  Government that have cybersecurity responsibilities. The Transmission Provider

                  shall, after consultation with a federal agency with which information was shared

                  in response to a Cyber Exigency, notify by appropriate means and to the extent

                  deemed advisable for purposes of preserving Transmission System reliability the

                  entities that provided information to the Transmission Provider that was shared

                  with the federal agency.

          iii.     The Transmission Provider may provide information that is otherwise required to

                  be maintained in confidence pursuant to this Tariff to the ERO, a Regional Entity,

                  or the staff of one of those agencies/organizations to the extent that the

                  Transmission Provider determines, in its reasonable discretion, that the provision

                  of such information will enhance or maintain reliability within the Transmission

                  Provider Region or neighboring Balancing Authority Areas.

   Paragraphs a)i through and a)iii above shall apply to the specified agencies/organizations and

   their successor agencies/organizations.

   b)     Request for Confidential Treatment.

          The Transmission Provider shall request that the information submitted to the

   agencies/organizations as provided in part a) of this section or their staffs be treated as

   confidential and non-public, and that the information be withheld from public disclosure,

   consistent with Applicable Laws and Regulations as well as other applicable policies or

   procedures of the agency/organizations that receives the information.




                                                                              Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                                                 38.9.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Disclosure to Specified Agencies/Organizations
MODULES                                                                                              32.0.0


   c)      General Provision for Release of Information to Third Parties.

   The Transmission Provider shall promptly notify, by appropriate means, the entities that

   submitted the requested Confidential Information when it receives from an agency/organization

   specified in part a) of this section or their staffs a request for disclosure to a third party that is not

   an agency/organization of the U.S. Government of Confidential Information that was previously

   provided to the agency/organization by the Transmission Provider.

   d)      Electronic Delivery of Confidential and Non-Public Data to the Commission

   The Transmission Provider shall electronically deliver to the Commission, on a confidential and

   ongoing basis, in a form and manner consistent with its own collection of data, and which is

   acceptable to the Commission, certain confidential and non-public data related to the markets the

   Transmission Provider administers.




                                                                                Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                                     38.9.3(A)
FERC Electric Tariff   Electronic Delivery of Confidential and Non-Public Data to t
MODULES                                                                     31.0.0




                                                     Effective On: March 30, 2019
MISO                                                38.9.4
FERC Electric Tariff   Disclosure to Authorized Requestors
MODULES                                             30.0.0




                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                 38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


                       Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Transmission Provider

                       from releasing a Market Participant’s Confidential Information or

                       information to a third party provided that the Market Participant

                       has delivered to the Transmission Provider specific, written

                       authorization for such release setting forth the data or information

                       to be released, to whom such release is authorized, and the period

                       of time for which such release shall be authorized. The

                       Transmission Provider shall limit the release of a Market

                       Participant’s Confidential Information to that specific authorization

                       provided from the Market Participant. Nothing herein shall

                       prohibit a Market Participant from withdrawing such authorization

                       upon written notice to the Transmission Provider who shall cease

                       such release as soon as practicable upon receipt of the written

                       notice.

                       Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, the

                       Transmission Provider and/or IMM shall only disclose

                       Confidential Information, otherwise required to be maintained in

                       confidence pursuant to this Tariff, to an Authorized Requestor

                       solely under the following conditions:




                                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                            38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                           30.0.0


                       a.         The Authorized Requestor has executed a Non-

                       Disclosure Agreement with the Transmission Provider,

                       stating:

                                  i.     the position he or she holds within or the

                                         relationship he or she has with the

                                         Authorized Agency for which he or she will

                                         be an Authorized Requestor;

                                  ii.    that he or she is authorized to enter into and

                                         perform the obligations of the Non-

                                         Disclosure Agreement;

                                  iii.   that the relevant Authorized Agency has

                                         practices or procedures adequate to protect

                                         against the unauthorized release of any

                                         Confidential Information received pursuant

                                         to the Non-Disclosure Agreement;

                                  iv.    that he or she is familiar with, and will

                                         comply with, any applicable practices or

                                         procedures of the Authorized Agency which

                                         the Authorized Requestor represents; and

                                  v.     that he or she is not in breach of any Non-

                                         Disclosure Agreement entered into with the

                                         Transmission Provider.




                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                               Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                       30.0.0


                       b.     The Transmission Provider will verify that the

                       Authorized Agency employing or retaining the Authorized

                       Requestor has provided the Transmission Provider with the

                       following information pursuant to Section 2.2 of

                       Attachment EE (Form of Non-Disclosure Agreement for

                       Authorized Requestors):

                              i.     a list of statutory authority, obligation or

                                     duty establishing or specifying the particular

                                     Authorized Agency’s duty, responsibility or

                                     authority in fulfillment of which it will make

                                     requests to the Transmission Provider or the

                                     IMM under this Section for information,

                                     including, but not limited to, that

                                     enumerated and described as available to the

                                     IMM in Module D of this Tariff; or, in the

                                     case of the Organization of MISO States

                                     (“OMS”), an order of the Commission

                                     prohibiting the release of Confidential

                                     Information by the Organization of MISO

                                     States, except in accordance with the terms

                                     of the Non-Disclosure Agreement; provided,

                                     that, Offers of Proof that state commissions




                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                 38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                        Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                30.0.0


                              or the OMS filed in FERC Docket No.

                              ER04-691-024 and No. EL04-104-023 shall

                              be deemed prima facie evidence of such

                              statutory authority, obligation, duty or

                              responsibility;

                       ii.    a statement notifying and identifying to the

                              Transmission Provider that the Authorized

                              Agency has practices or procedures in place

                              adequate to protect against the unauthorized

                              release of Confidential Information; and

                       iii.   confirmation in writing that the Authorized

                              Requestor is authorized by the Authorized

                              Agency to enter into the Non-Disclosure

                              Agreement and to receive Confidential

                              Information under this Tariff.




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


                       c.     In fulfilling the verification required by

                       Subsection (b) immediately above, the Transmission

                       Provider shall be able to rely conclusively upon either an

                       order of such Authorized Agency or a certification from

                       counsel to such Authorized Agency, confirming that the

                       Authorized Agency: (i) has statutory authority, or in the

                       case of the OMS is in receipt of and bound by the

                       Commission Order referred to in Subsection (b)(i) above,

                       to protect the confidentiality of any Confidential

                       Information received pursuant to the Non-Disclosure

                       Agreement from public release or disclosure and from

                       release or disclosure to any other entity, including other

                       agencies of state government, except to the extent that such

                       disclosure is required or permitted by state law; (ii) except

                       as provided in Subsection (d) below, will defend against

                       any disclosure of Confidential Information pursuant to any

                       Third Party Request through all available legal process,

                       including, but not limited to, obtaining any necessary

                       protective orders; (iii) will provide the Transmission

                       Provider with prompt notice of any such Third Party

                       Request or legal proceedings and will consult and

                       cooperate with the Transmission Provider and/or any




                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                          38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


                       Affected Participant in its efforts to deny the Third Party

                       Request or defend against such legal process; (iv) in the

                       event a protective order or other remedy is denied, will

                       direct Authorized Requestors authorized by it to furnish

                       only that portion of the Confidential Information that their

                       legal counsel advises MISO in writing is legally required to

                       be furnished; (v) will exercise its best efforts to obtain

                       assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded to

                       such Confidential Information; (vi) has adequate practices

                       or procedures in place to protect against the release of such

                       Confidential Information; and (vii) has authorized the

                       Authorized Requestor to enter into the Non-Disclosure

                       Agreement and to receive Confidential Information

                       pursuant to the Tariff and under the Non-Disclosure

                       Agreement, and can provide a written copy of such

                       authorization.

                       d.      The certification from counsel for the Authorized

                       Agency referred to in Subsection (c)(ii) above must

                       affirmatively disclose any state law that will prohibit or

                       prevent the Authorized Agency from defending against any

                       disclosure of Confidential Information pursuant to any

                       Third Party Request as otherwise required by




                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                         38.9.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                Basic Requirements for Disclosure
MODULES                                                                        30.0.0


                       Subsection (c)(ii). In an instance where there is such a state

                       law disclosed, such certification shall confirm that the

                       Transmission Provider would have notice of the Third

                       Party Request and standing to pursue legal processes,

                       including the obtaining of a protective order, before the

                       forum in which state law prohibits or prevents the

                       Authorized Agency from taking such actions itself.




                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          38.9.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Schedule of Authorized Requestors.
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall maintain a schedule of all Authorized Requestors and

   the Authorized Agencies they represent, which shall be made available on its website or by

   written request. The schedule shall include phone numbers and e-mail addresses. Such schedule

   shall be compiled by the Transmission Provider, based on information provided by any

   Authorized Requestor and/or Authorized Agency. The Transmission Provider shall update the

   schedule promptly upon receipt of information from an Authorized Requestor or Authorized

   Agency, but shall have no obligation to verify or corroborate any such information, and shall not

   be liable or otherwise responsible for any inaccuracies in the schedule due to incomplete or

   erroneous information conveyed to and relied upon by the Transmission Provider in the

   compilation and/or maintenance of the schedule.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            38.9.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Use of Confidential Information.
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The Authorized Requestor shall use the Confidential Information solely for the purpose of

   assisting an Authorized Agency in discharging its duty, responsibility or authority in fulfillment

   of which it authorizes Authorized Requestors to make requests for Confidential Information and

   for no other purpose. Any and all Authorized Requestors sponsored by the same Authorized

   Agency may have access to the Confidential Information that is provided to the sponsoring

   Authorized Agency pursuant to an Information Request.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                 38.9.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Limited Oral Disclosures
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


                       a.   The Transmission Provider or the IMM may, in the course

                            of discussions with an Authorized Requestor or Authorized

                            Requestors in meetings or teleconferences, orally disclose

                            information otherwise required to be maintained in

                            confidence, without the need for a prior Information

                            Request. Such oral disclosures shall provide enough

                            information to enable the Authorized Requestors or their

                            Authorized Agency to determine whether additional

                            Information Requests are appropriate. The Transmission

                            Provider or the IMM will not make any written or

                            electronic disclosures of Confidential Information to the

                            Authorized Requestor pursuant to this section. In any such

                            discussions, the Transmission Provider or the IMM shall

                            ensure that the individual or individuals receiving such

                            Confidential Information are Authorized Requestors, orally

                            designate Confidential Information that is disclosed, and

                            refrain from identifying any specific Affected Participant

                            whose information is disclosed. The Transmission

                            Provider or IMM shall also be authorized to assist

                            Authorized Requestors in interpreting Confidential

                            Information that is disclosed.

                            The Transmission Provider or the IMM shall provide any




                                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                           38.9.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Limited Oral Disclosures
MODULES                                                                          30.0.0


                       Affected Participant with oral notice of any oral disclosure

                       promptly, but not later than one (1) business day after the

                       oral disclosure. Such oral notice to the Affected Participant

                       shall include the substance of the oral disclosure, but shall

                       not reveal any Confidential Information of any other entity

                       and must be received by the Affected Participant before the

                       name of the Affected Participant is released to the

                       Authorized Requestor; provided, however, the identity of

                       the Affected Participant must be made available to the

                       Authorized Requestor within two (2) business days of the

                       initial oral disclosure.




                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.9.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Information Requests
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   (a)    Form: Information Requests to the Transmission Provider or the IMM shall be in

          writing, and shall include electronic communications addressed to the Transmission

          Provider or to the IMM as appropriate.

   (b)    Content: Each Information Request shall describe, in as much detail as possible, the

          particular information sought, including the time period for the requested information;

          provide a description of the purpose for which the information is being sought and state

          the time period for which it is expected that the information will need to be retained by

          the Authorized Requestor.

   (c)    Notice:

          (i)     The Transmission Provider or the IMM shall provide an Affected Participant with

                  notice of and a copy of an Information Request by an Authorized Requestor as

                  soon as possible, but not later than two (2) Business Days after the receipt of the

                  Information Request.

          (ii)    The Affected Participant shall have three (3) additional Business Days from the

                  date of the notice that an Information Request has been received to provide, to the

                  IMM and the Transmission Provider, written information which the Affected

                  Participant believes will provide context to the information sought by the

                  Information Request. The Transmission Provider or the IMM will include the

                  contextual statement with the information provided to the Authorized Requestor.

          (iii)   The Transmission Provider shall maintain all Information Requests of a general

                  nature in an electronic form accessible by Market Participants and Authorized

                  Requestors. Such list shall not include those Information Requests that sought




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.9.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Information Requests
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                 information of or about a named Market Participant or that would, in the

                 Transmission Provider’s view, otherwise be readily ascertainable as being

                 directed toward Confidential Information from or about an individual Market

                 Participant. On at least an annual basis the Transmission Provider shall delete

                 from the list all Information Requests for which the Confidential Information has

                 been returned or destroyed by the Authorized Requestor.

   (d)    Disclosure: Subject to the provisions of Section 38.9.4.5(c)(ii) and Section 38.9.4.5(f)

          and (g) below, the Transmission Provider or the IMM shall supply the information sought

          to the Authorized Requestor in response to any Information Request within five

          (5) Business Days after the receipt of the Information Request, or within such longer

          period as may be specified by the Information Request, unless a timely objection has

          been made to the Information Request, or unless the requested information can only

          reasonably be made available within an extended time period.

          To the extent that the Transmission Provider or the IMM cannot reasonably prepare and

          deliver the requested information within the five (5) Business Day period or any longer

          period specified in the Information Request, it shall, within such period, hold discussions

          with the Authorized Requestor and provide the Authorized Requestor with a mutually

          agreed upon written schedule for the provision of such remaining information. Upon

          providing the requested information to the Authorized Requestor, the Transmission

          Provider or the IMM shall provide a copy of the disclosed information to the Affected

          Participant(s), or provide a listing of the Confidential Information disclosed; provided,




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.9.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Information Requests
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


          however, that the Transmission Provider or the IMM shall not reveal any Affected

          Participant’s Confidential Information to any other Market Participant.

   (e)    Objection: Notwithstanding Section 38.9.4.5(d) above, should the Transmission

          Provider, the IMM or an Affected Participant object to an Information Request or any

          portion thereof, any of them or the Authorized Requestor may, within four (4) Business

          Days following the Transmission Provider’s or the IMM’s receipt of the Information

          Request, request, in writing, a conference with the Authorized Agency, or the Authorized

          Agency’s Authorized Requestor, to resolve differences concerning the scope or time

          period covered by the Information Request; provided, however, nothing herein shall

          require the Authorized Agency to participate in any conference.

          Any party to the conference may seek assistance from FERC staff in resolution of the

          dispute. Should such conference be refused by any participant, or not resolve the dispute,

          then the Transmission Provider, the Affected Participant or the Authorized Agency may

          initiate appropriate legal action at FERC within three (3) Business Days following receipt

          of written notice from any participant refusing or terminating such conference. Any

          complaints filed at FERC objecting to a particular Information Request shall be

          designated by the party as a “fast track” complaint and each party shall bear its own costs

          in connection with such FERC proceeding.

          If no FERC proceeding regarding the Information Request is commenced within such

          three-day period, the Transmission Provider or the IMM shall respond to the Information

          Request within five (5) Business Days or any longer period that may be specified by the

          Information Request, counted from the expiration of such three-day period.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             38.9.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Information Requests
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   (f)    Opportunity to Respond to Confidentiality Claims: If the Affected Participant, the

          Transmission Provider or the IMM considers the information sought by the Information

          Request as Confidential Information, the Authorized Requestor shall be provided an

          opportunity to challenge the designation or classification of the requested information as

          Confidential Information.

   (g)    Limitation On Disclosure Obligation: The Transmission Provider or the IMM shall not

          be required to make disclosure in response to an Information Request in circumstances

          where an electronic data link, dedicated communication circuit or other hardware or third

          party services would be necessary to effectuate the disclosure. Nor shall the

          Transmission Provider or the IMM be required to make disclosure in response to an

          Information Request that is of a scope or extent materially similar to the flow of data

          from Market Participants to the Transmission Provider or from the Transmission Provider

          to the IMM.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          38.9.4.6
FERC Electric Tariff                         Reserved
MODULES                                         31.0.0




                       Effective On: November 16, 2022
MISO                                                                                       38.9.4.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Breach of Non-Disclosure Obligations
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0




                       In the event of any breach of a Non-Disclosure Agreement:



                                 a. The Authorized Requestors and/or their respective

                                     Authorized Agency shall promptly notify the Transmission

                                     Provider or the IMM, who shall, in turn, promptly notify

                                     any Affected Participant of any unauthorized release of

                                     Confidential Information provided pursuant to any Non-

                                     Disclosure Agreement. Upon notification, the

                                     Transmission Provider will cease disclosure to the

                                     Authorized Requestor pursuant to any Information

                                     Requests and will make no disclosure pursuant to any

                                     Information Request pending from the Authorized

                                     Requestor until it can be determined after consultation with

                                     the Authorized Requestor, his or her Authorized Agency

                                     and the Affected Participant that an appropriate

                                     combination of the following factors justifies resumption of

                                     the Authorized Requestor’s access to Confidential

                                     Information: (i) the unauthorized disclosure was not due to

                                     the intentional, reckless or negligent action or omission of

                                     the Authorized Requestor (ii) there was no harm or

                                     economic damage suffered by the Affected Participant; (iii)




                                                                   Effective On: December 16, 2023
MISO                                                                           38.9.4.7
FERC Electric Tariff                               Breach of Non-Disclosure Obligations
MODULES                                                                          31.0.0


                          there are now practices or procedures in place adequate to

                          prevent a recurrence of the unauthorized disclosure; and/or

                          (iv) similar good cause shown.

                       b. If the Transmission Provider or the IMM receives from an

                          Authorized Requestor or Authorized Agency a written

                          notice that a breach has occurred, or FERC has made a

                          ruling that a breach has occurred, the Transmission

                          Provider and/or, the IMM shall terminate the Non-

                          Disclosure Agreement and require either the immediate

                          return of all Confidential Information obtained by the

                          Authorized Requestor pursuant to the Non-Disclosure

                          Agreement or a certification of its destruction. The

                          Transmission Provider shall verify the breach in

                          consultation with the Authorized Agency. If it is

                          subsequently determined that there was no breach, or if

                          otherwise justified by circumstances described in

                          Subsection (a) above, the Transmission Provider shall

                          restore the status of the Authorized Requestor. Any other

                          rights and remedies shall be pursuant to the terms of the

                          Non-Disclosure Agreement.

                       c. No Authorized Requestor, who is an employee of an

                          Authorized Agency, shall have responsibility or liability




                                                        Effective On: December 16, 2023
MISO                                                                         38.9.4.7
FERC Electric Tariff                             Breach of Non-Disclosure Obligations
MODULES                                                                        31.0.0


                       whatsoever under the Non-Disclosure Agreement or this

                       Tariff for any and all liabilities, losses, damages, demands,

                       fines, monetary judgments, penalties, costs and expenses

                       caused by, resulting from, or arising out of or in connection

                       with the release of Confidential Information to persons not

                       authorized to receive it. However, nothing in this Section

                       38.9.4.7.c is intended to limit the liability of any person

                       who is not an employee of or a member of an Authorized

                       Agency, to the degree not granted limitations as to liability

                       under applicable state law of the Authorized Agency’s

                       state, when such a person is under contract to perform

                       services for the Authorized Agency, for any and all

                       economic losses, damages, demands, fines, monetary

                       judgments, penalties, costs and expenses caused by,

                       resulting from, or arising out of or in connection with such

                       unauthorized release.




                                                      Effective On: December 16, 2023
MISO                                                                       III.
FERC Electric TariffENERGY AND OPERATING RESERVE MARKET PROCESSES AND SETTLEMENT
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0


  ENERGY AND OPERATING RESERVE MARKET PROCESSES AND SETTLEMENTS




                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           39
FERC Electric Tariff                  Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Processes and
MODULES                                                                                    38.0.0


   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Processes and Settlements

   The Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market is a forward and financially-binding

   market in which (i) cleared Day-Ahead Schedules for Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning

   Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

   Reserve, (ii) Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs for Energy, and (iii)

   Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Operating Reserves, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve are calculated for each Hour of the

   next Operating Day based on submitted Bids and Offers using SCUC, SCED, and SCED-Pricing

   as set forth herein.



   The clearing and pricing of Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

   Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market is

   based on a simultaneous co-optimization process which minimizes the total costs of Energy,

   Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve to

   meet the Transmission Provider Region requirements.



   The SCED simultaneous co-optimization process ensures: (i) that all Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs

   and Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs for each Resource supplying Energy, Operating Reserve, Up

   Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve through economic clearing

   are greater than or equal to the corresponding Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

   Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve costs respectively when the resource is not

   scheduled at a limit. Such Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                            39
FERC Electric Tariff                   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Processes and
MODULES                                                                                     38.0.0


   Capability, and Short-Term Reserve costs are equal to the corresponding Energy, Operating

   Reserve, and/or Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offers for the Resource plus any Opportunity

   Costs incurred from any reductions in the sale of an alternative product; (ii) available Regulating

   Reserve in excess of requirements can be used to meet Contingency Reserve requirements,

   where only the Regulating Capacity Offer will be taken into account for the portion of

   Regulating Reserve used to meet Contingency Reserve requirements, and available Spinning

   Reserve in excess of requirements can be used to meet Supplemental Reserve requirements; and

   (iii) Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs for Regulating Reserve are greater than or equal to Day-Ahead

   Ex Ante MCPs for Spinning Reserve and Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs for Spinning Reserve are

   greater than or equal to Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs for Supplemental Reserve.



   SCED-Pricing, as described in Schedule 29A of this Tariff, uses simultaneous co-optimization to

   calculate Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs. SCED-Pricing allows Fast

   Start Resources that are committed by the Transmission Provider that are scheduled at limits by

   SCED to set Day-Ahead Ex Post Prices at their locations. In instances where SCED indicates

   Energy or Reserve Scarcity or the violation of transmission constraints, SCED-Pricing may set

   prices by reflecting the cost of committing an off-line Fast Start Resource.




                                                                                  Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                      39.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Procedure
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0




                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        39.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Trading Deadli
MODULES                                                                                     41.0.0


   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Trading Deadline:

          No later than the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, (1)

   Market Participants, including GFA Scheduling Entities and Market Participants with SSR Units,

   must submit to the Transmission Provider any Interchange Schedules, Bids for the purchase of

   Energy; Self-Schedules and/or Offers for the sale of Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning

   Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve; and Offer Dispatch Status for Up

   Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve for consideration in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market; and (2) Market Participants must indicate for each

   Hour of the Operating Day if Resources are to be self-committed or economically committed.

   The Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall close at 1030 hours EPT, or such

   later time as may be required from time to time due to unanticipated events, the Day before the

   Operating Day. The Transmission Provider may extend or reopen the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market based on unanticipated events that: (i) interfere with the Transmission

   Provider’s ability to receive or process Bid, Offer, or Interchange Schedule data; (ii) render Bid,

   Offer, or Interchange Schedule data plainly inaccurate in a manner that is likely to significantly

   impede the Transmission Provider’s ability to deliver a feasible market solution; (iii) are

   otherwise likely to have a widespread negative impact on the results of the Day-Ahead Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market, in a manner that adversely threatens or affects the reliability of

   market operations or of the Transmission System; or (iv) require adjustments to the Pricing

   VOLL in accordance with Section 40.2.20.b.iv. The Transmission Provider shall post a notice of

   any extension or reopening of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The notice

   shall state each extension or reopening’s circumstances, rationale, duration, and whether such




                                                                        Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       39.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                 Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Trading Deadli
MODULES                                                                                    41.0.0


   action enabled the Transmission Provider to successfully address or minimize the issue that

   necessitated the extension or reopening.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          39.1.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Day-Ahead Resource Offer Obligation.
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   a.     Designated Capacity Resource Obligation – Energy, Contingency Reserve, and

   Short-Term Reserve.

          Consistent with Section 69A.5, Market Participants with designated Capacity Resources

          must submit, for any portion of a Resource designated as a Capacity Resource, a Self-

          Schedule or Offer for Energy, Contingency Reserve, and an Offer for Short-Term

          Reserve. Such Offers shall be consistent with the requirements specified in this Section

          and in the Business Practices Manuals. This designated Capacity Resource must-Offer

          obligation, as specified in RAR, applies to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, except to the extent that the designated Capacity Resource is unable to provide

          Energy, Contingency Reserve, or Short-Term Reserve due to a forced or planned outage

          or other physical operating restrictions consistent with this Tariff.

   b.     Transitional Designated Capacity Resource Obligation – Regulating Reserve

          Market Participants with designated Capacity Resources must submit, for any portion of

          a Resource designated as a Capacity Resource, an Offer for Regulating Reserve if a

          Regulation Qualified Resource, provided that, such must-offer requirement shall

          terminate one hundred and eighty (180) days after the implementation of the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets. Such Offers shall be consistent with the requirements

          specified in this Section and in the Business Practices Manuals. This transitional

          obligation applies to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, except to the

          extent that the designated Capacity Resource is unable to provide Regulating Reserve due

          to a forced or planned outage or other physical operating restrictions consistent with this

          Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                      39.1.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Day-Ahead Resource Offer Obligation.
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


   c.     Non-designated Capacity Resource Obligation

          A Market Participant shall not have the obligation to Offer for Energy and Operating

          Reserve into the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for any portion of a Resource

          not designated as a Capacity Resource.




                                                                      Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                            39.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Rules for Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                         41.0.0


          Market Participants may submit Self-Schedules for Energy from their Resources, in

   whole or in part, in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, except for Electric

   Storage Resources and Demand Response Resources. Market Participants may submit Self-

   Schedules for Operating Reserve from their Resources, in whole or in part, in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market, except for Electric Storage Resources. Market

   Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy are required to submit a MWh quantity and

   the applicable Hour for each Self-Scheduled Resource. Market Participants that submit Self-

   Schedules for Operating Reserve are required to submit a MW quantity and the applicable Hour

   for each Self-Scheduled Resource. Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy

   and/or Operating Reserve are Price Takers for each Self-Schedule. Self-Schedules for Energy

   must be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit and less than or equal to

   the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit. Self-Schedules for Regulating Reserve must be greater

   than or equal to one (1) MW for each Self-Scheduled Resource and can only be submitted for

   Regulation Qualified Resources. Self-Schedules for Spinning Reserve must be greater than or

   equal to one (1) MW for each Self-Scheduled Resource and can only be submitted for Spin

   Qualified Resources. Self-Schedules for Supplemental Reserve must be greater than or equal to

   one (1) MW for each Self-Scheduled Resource and can only be submitted for Supplemental

   Qualified Resources that are not also Spin Qualified Resources or for Supplemental Qualified

   Resources that are Quick Start Resources that are uncommitted. The acceptance of Self-

   Schedules for a specific Self-Scheduled Resource will be contingent on: (i) the commitment of

   the Self-Scheduled Resource; and (ii) compliance with the corresponding Self-Scheduled

   Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule 29. If a Self-Schedule is




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            39.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Rules for Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                         41.0.0


   accepted by the Transmission Provider, the Resource Schedules for Energy and Operating

   Reserve may clear above the Self-Scheduled amounts based on the submitted Offers, as needed,

   in an economic manner based upon the simultaneously co-optimized solution. The Transmission

   Provider may reduce Self-Schedules as necessary to manage transmission constraints, maintain

   Operating Reserve requirements, satisfy Energy demand and/or maintain reliable operating

   conditions. In no case will the Transmission Provider violate the Resource limits.

          Market Participants may submit Self-Schedules for Energy and/or Operating Reserve

   from their Electric Storage Resources, in whole or in part, in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market. Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy are

   required to submit a MW quantity and the applicable Hour for each Self-Scheduled Resource.

   Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Operating Reserve are required to submit a

   MW quantity and the applicable Hour for each Self-Scheduled Resource.

          Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy and/or Operating Reserve are

   Price Takers for each Self-Schedule. Self-Schedules for Energy must be: (i) greater than or equal

   to the Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly

   Economic Maximum Discharge Limit with a Discharge Commitment Status; (ii) greater than or

   equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly

   Economic Maximum Charge Limit with a Charge Commitment Status; (iii) greater than or equal

   to the Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly Economic

   Maximum Discharge Limit with a Continuous Commitment Status.

          Self-Schedules for Regulating Reserve can only be submitted for Regulation Qualified

   Resources. Self-Schedules for Spinning Reserve can only be submitted for Spin Qualified




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            39.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Rules for Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                         41.0.0


   Resources. Self-Schedules for Supplemental Reserve can only be submitted for Supplemental

   Qualified Resources that are not also Spin Qualified Resources or for Supplemental Qualified

   Resources that are Quick Start Resources with an Available Commitment Status.

          The acceptance of Self-Schedules for a specific Self-Scheduled Electric Storage Resource

   will be contingent on: (i) the commitment of the Self-Scheduled Electric Storage Resource; and

   (ii) compliance with the corresponding Self-Scheduled Electric Storage Resource limit and

   ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule 29.

          If a Self-Schedule is accepted by the Transmission Provider, the Electric Storage

   Resource schedules for Energy and Operating Reserve may clear above the Self-Scheduled

   amounts based on the submitted Electric Storage Resource Offers, as needed, in an economic

   manner based upon the simultaneously co- optimized solution and with the following rules: (i) if

   the Self-Schedule Energy amount is greater than zero (0), then the Energy MW amount above

   this value could be economically dispatched; (ii) if the Self-Schedule Energy amount is less than

   zero (0), then the Energy MW amount below this value could be economically dispatched; (iii) if

   the Self-Schedule Energy amount is equal to zero (0), then the Self-Schedule offer will be

   ignored.

          The Transmission Provider may reduce Self-Schedules as necessary to manage

   transmission constraints and Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, maintain Operating

   Reserve requirements, satisfy Energy demand and/or maintain reliable operating conditions. In

   no case will the Transmission Provider violate the Electric Storage Resource limits based on the

   Offer Commitment Status.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             39.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Rules for Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                          41.0.0


          Resources may not self-schedule Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, or Short-

   Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          Demand Response Resources may not submit Self Schedules for Energy in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Markets.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the values in Self-Schedules shall reflect any operating

   limitation, such as thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage

   Operations, provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

   reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual known physical capabilities and

   characteristics of the Resource on which the Self-Schedule is based.




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             39.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Rules for Financial Schedules
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   Financial Schedules may be submitted at any time prior to 1200 hours EST six (6) Calendar

   Days after the Operating Day. The Transmission Provider is not the Energy Market

   Counterparty to the sale of Energy under a Financial Schedule transaction. The Financial

   Schedule shall include:

          i.     Identification of the Market Participants included in the Financial Schedule;

          ii.    The Energy and Operating Reserve Market in which the Financial Schedule will

                 be settled, using either the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMPs; and

          iii.   The scheduled volume in MWh for each Hour of the Financial Schedule.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                           39.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    Rules for Interchange Schedules to be Considered in Day-Ahea
MODULES                                                                                        37.0.0


   Rules for Interchange Schedules to be Considered in Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market:

   Interchange Schedules include Import Schedules, Export Schedules and Through Schedules.

   Import Schedules need not be accompanied by reservations of Point-To-Point Transmission

   Service on the Transmission System, if supported by Network Integration Transmission Service

   or submitted pursuant to a Grandfathered Agreement. Export Schedules, not submitted pursuant

   to a Grandfathered Agreement or an individual Coordinating Owners coordination agreement

   regarding reciprocity provisions with regard to transmission service must be accompanied by

   reservation of Point-To-Point Transmission Service on the Transmission System. Through

   Schedules must be accompanied by reservations of Point-To-Point Transmission Services, unless

   the Transmission Service is provided according to the terms of a Grandfathered Agreement, for

   segments within the Transmission Provider Region. Interchange Schedules must be submitted

   by 1030 hours EPT of the Day prior to the Operating Day if they are to be considered for

   clearing, pricing and settlement in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          a.     Validation of Interchange Schedules. Interchange Schedules must be validated

                 by the Transmission Provider to ensure a Transmission Service reservation exists

                 and the Interchange Schedule can be supported. The Transmission Provider must

                 have confirmed the accepted Interchange Schedules with the appropriate

                 Interchange Authorities and Market Participants prior to 1030 hours EPT or the

                 Interchange Schedule will be rejected.

          b.     Types of Interchange Schedules. There are three (3) types of Interchange

                 Schedules that can be cleared and settled through the Day-Ahead Energy and




                                                                      Effective On: December 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                          39.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Rules for Interchange Schedules to be Considered in Day-Ahea
MODULES                                                                                       37.0.0


                 Operating Reserve Market: Fixed Interchange Schedules, Dispatchable

                 Interchange Schedules, and Up-to-TUC Interchange Schedules.

                 i.     Fixed Interchange Schedules are used by Market Participants to schedule

                        fixed amounts of Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                        Market at a specific Interface. Market Participants that submit these Fixed

                        Interchange Schedules are Price Takers for the amount of the schedule.

                 ii.    Dispatchable Interchange Schedules are used by Market Participants to

                        specify a Bid or Offer, expressed in $/MWh, for specific amounts of

                        Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at a

                        specific Interface. Bids or Offers for Dispatchable Interchange Schedules

                        may not exceed the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap.

                 iii.   Up-to-TUC Interchange Schedules are used by Market Participants to

                        specify a maximum Transmission Usage Charge, expressed in $/MWh,

                        beyond which the Market Participant agrees to be curtailed. The

                        maximum Transmission Usage Charge the Market Participant can specify

                        is $25/MWh.




                                                                      Effective On: December 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                            39.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Posting of the Day-Ahead Schedules
MODULES                                                                                         41.0.0


   By 1330 hours EPT, or such later time as may be required from time to time due to unanticipated

   events, on the Day prior to the Operating Day, the Transmission Provider shall post, based on the

   market clearing results of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the: (i) Day-

   Ahead Schedules for Energy for each Resource, Load Zone, Interchange Schedule and Virtual

   Transaction, and (ii) Day-Ahead Schedules for Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve,

   Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve

   for each Resource. All Day-Ahead Schedules shall be considered proprietary, with the posting

   only visible to entities authorized by the Market Participant, subject to the Commission’s

   applicable standards of conduct. The Day-Ahead Schedules for Energy shall consist of twenty-

   four (24) hourly values for each Resource, Load Zone, Interchange Schedule and Virtual

   Transaction, and the Day-Ahead Schedules for Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down

   Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve shall consist of twenty-four (24) Hourly values for

   each Resource. Also at 1330 hours EPT, or such later time as may be required from time to time

   due to unanticipated events, of the Day prior to the Operating Day, the Transmission Provider

   will post the Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP (including the Marginal Congestion Component and the

   Marginal Losses Component) for each Commercial Pricing Node; the Day-Ahead Ex Ante

   Regulating Reserve MCP, Ex Ante Spinning Reserve MCP, Ex Ante Supplemental Reserve

   MCP, Ex Ante Up Ramp Capability MCP, Ex Ante Down Ramp Capability MCP, and Ex Ante

   Short-Term Reserve MCP for each Resource, in each Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market as determined pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 39.2.9.

   Between 1330 and 1630 hours EPT, or such later time as may be required from time to time due

   to unanticipated events, on the Day prior to the Operating Day, the Transmission Provider will




                                                                        Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                          39.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Posting of the Day-Ahead Schedules
MODULES                                                                                       41.0.0


   post the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP (including the Marginal Congestion Component and the

   Marginal Losses Component) for each Commercial Pricing Node, the Day-Ahead Ex Post

   Regulating Reserve MCP, Ex Post Spinning Reserve MCP, Ex Post Supplemental Reserve MCP,

   Ex Post Up Ramp Capability MCP, Ex Post Down Ramp Capability MCP, and Ex Post Short-

   Term Reserve MCP for each Resource, in each Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market as determined pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 39.2.9.




                                                                       Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                            39.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                       30.0.0




                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             39.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Transmission Provider Obligations
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


   The Transmission Provider in its role as the Energy and Operating Reserve Market Operator

   shall provide the following services for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          a.     Establish and post on the internet rules for eligibility to supply and purchase

                 Energy, to supply Operating Reserve, to supply Up Ramp Capability, to supply

                 Down Ramp Capability, and to supply Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          b.     Establish and post on the internet procedures, including Bid and Offer rules, to

                 supply and purchase Energy, to supply Operating Reserve, to supply Up Ramp

                 Capability, to supply Down Ramp Capability, and to supply Short-Term Reserve

                 in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          c.     Provide the Settlement functions associated with the purchase and sale of Energy,

                 Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, to supply Down Ramp Capability, and

                 to supply Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Market.

          d.     Calculate and post on the internet the Day-Ahead Schedules, Day-Ahead Ex Ante

                 LMPs, Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs, Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs, and Day-Ahead

                 Ex Post MCPs.

          e.     Calculate and post on the internet the Market-Wide Regulating Reserve

                 Requirements, the Market-Wide Spinning Reserve Requirements, the Market-

                 Wide Supplemental Reserve Requirements, and the Market-Wide Short-Term

                 Reserve Requirements.




                                                                        Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Transmission Provider Obligations
MODULES                                                                                      39.0.0


          f.     The Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirements and Market-Wide Down

                 Ramp Requirements are dynamically calculated and will be posted along with the

                 posting of the results of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                    Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                           39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         46.0.0


   a.     Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Product Requirements.

   All cleared Regulating Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be

   deployable in both the regulation-up and regulation-down directions within the Regulation

   Response Time consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in

   Schedule 29.

   The Regulation Response Time will be determined and/or adjusted by the Transmission Provider

   on a periodic basis to comply with Applicable Reliability Standards. The day-ahead Market-

   Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement will be established each day by the Transmission

   Provider to comply with Applicable Reliability Standards in an economic manner. The day-

   ahead Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement may vary on an Hourly basis if permitted

   by the Applicable Reliability Standards. All Regulating Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be supplied by Regulation Qualified Resources.

   The percentage of Regulating Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market on any individual Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, Electric

   Storage Resource, External Asynchronous Resource, and/or Distributed Energy Aggregated

   Resource shall initially be limited to twenty percent of the hourly day-ahead Market-Wide

   Regulating Reserve Requirement to the extent that such limitation does not create Regulating

   Reserve scarcity conditions or any other adverse reliability related conditions, and may be further

   limited on specific Demand Response Resources – Type II based on Applicable Reliability

   Standards.

   b.     Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Product Requirements.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         46.0.0


   All cleared Contingency Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must

   be deployable within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period. The day-ahead Market-

   Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement will be set by the Transmission Provider to comply

   with Applicable Reliability Standards in an economic manner. The day-ahead Market-Wide

   Contingency Reserve Requirement may vary on an Hourly basis if permitted by Applicable

   Reliability Standards. All Market-Wide Spinning Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market must be supplied by Spin Qualified Resources. All Market-Wide

   Supplemental Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be

   supplied by Supplemental Qualified Resources. The day-ahead Market-Wide Spinning Reserve

   Requirement will be equal to the Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement multiplied by

   the greater of (i) the minimum frequency responsive Contingency Reserve percentage

   requirement in accordance with Applicable Reliability Standards, if applicable, or (ii) the

   minimum Spinning Reserve percentage requirement specified by Applicable Reliability

   Standards. The day-ahead Market-Wide Supplemental Reserve requirement will be equal to the

   day-ahead Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement minus the day-ahead Market-Wide

   Spinning Reserve Requirement. The percentage of Spinning Reserve and/or Supplemental

   Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market on any individual

   Resource shall initially be limited to twenty percent of the hourly day-ahead Market-Wide

   Contingency Reserve Requirement to the extent that such limitation does not create scarcity

   conditions or any other adverse reliability related conditions, and may be further limited on

   Demand Response Resource–Type I and/or Demand Response Resources–Type II based on

   Applicable Reliability Standards.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         46.0.0


   c.     Co-optimized Zonal Operating Reserve Product Requirements. In the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market, one or more Reserve Zones will be established to ensure

   Regulating Reserve, Contingency Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve are dispersed in a manner

   that prevents adverse operating conditions that affect the reliability of the Transmission System

   in accordance with Good Utility Practice. Reserve Zone Configuration Studies will be

   performed, as described under Section 39.2.1A.d, on a quarterly basis, in conjunction with the

   update of the Network Model. Reserve Zone Configuration Studies will establish the number of

   Reserve Zones and the assignment of Resource, Load and/or Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes

   to specific Reserve Zones concurrent with the update of the Network Model until the next

   scheduled update of the Network Model and results will be available electronically to Market

   Participants through downloadable files no less than two (2) days prior to the effective date. Post

   Reserve Deployment Constraints within the co-optimized formulation as described in Schedule

   29 and Schedule 29A will determine (i) the Co-optimized Zonal Regulating Reserve

   Requirements for each Reserve Zone, (ii) the Co-optimized Zonal Contingency Reserve

   Requirements for each Reserve Zone, (iii) the Co-optimized Zonal Spinning Reserve

   Requirements for each Reserve Zone, and (iv) the Co-optimized Zonal Short-Term Reserve

   Requirements for each Reserve Zone. In order to enforce the Market-Wide Regulating Reserve

   Requirement in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the cleared Regulating

   Reserve in one or more Reserve Zones may exceed the corresponding Co-optimized Regulating

   Reserve Requirement for that Reserve Zone when necessary. In order to enforce the Co-

   optimized Zonal Operating Reserve Requirements in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market, the cleared Market-Wide Operating Reserve may exceed the Market-Wide




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        46.0.0


   Operating Reserve Requirement when necessary. In order to enforce the Market-Wide

   Operating Reserve Requirement in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the

   cleared Operating Reserve in one or more Reserve Zones may exceed the corresponding Co-

   optimized Operating Reserve Requirement for that Reserve Zone when necessary. In order to

   enforce the Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirement in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market, the cleared Short-Term Reserve in one or more Reserve Zones may

   exceed the corresponding Co-optimized Short-Term Reserve Requirement for that Reserve Zone

   when necessary.

   d.     Reserve Zone Configuration Studies.

   In performing Reserve Zone Configuration Studies, the Transmission Provider shall apply the

   following process to establish the Reserve Zones and assign Resource, Load and/or Interface

   Elemental Pricing Nodes to specific Reserve Zones:

          i      Utilizing a Network Model representation within the Reserve Zone study software

                 for the target study period, identify all transmission constraints that could occur

                 through Resource re-dispatch. Transmission constraint identification will

                 consider projected system demands and planned generation and transmission

                 outages for the period.

          ii     The list of transmission constraints identified under (i) above is then screened to

                 limit the applicable transmission constraints to only those that will have a

                 significant impact on the Reserve Zone determination based on projected system

                 demands and planned generation and transmission outages for the period.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                          46.0.0


          iii     Once a final set of transmission constraints is identified under ii above, Resource,

                  Load, and/or Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes are grouped based on similar

                  impact on all of the remaining transmission constraints. The groups of Resource,

                  Load and Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes represent the Reserve Zones. All

                  remaining Resource, Load and Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes not assigned

                  specifically through the Reserve Zone Configuration Study shall be assigned to a

                  separate Reserve Zone and the minimum Contingency Reserve requirement of

                  such Reserve Zone shall be equal to zero (0) MW.

   e.     Reserve Zone Reconfiguration.

   The Transmission Provider may adjust the number of Reserve Zones and/or the assignment of

   Resource, Load and/or Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes to specific Reserve Zones as required

   if: 1) a condition or event occurs, including, but not limited to, an unplanned transmission facility

   outage, a Generator Forced Outage, or an event of Force Majeure, as defined in Section 10.1 of

   this Tariff; 2) such condition or event results in an adverse reliability condition that cannot be

   resolved through normal operating procedures; 3) such condition or event has a projected

   duration of two or more Operating Days and; 4) the Transmission Provider determines such

   adjustment is necessary to ensure the reliability of the Transmission System. The duration of any

   such adjustment will coincide with the duration of the condition or event, or until the next

   quarterly Reserve Zone Configuration Study update, whichever is less. The Transmission

   Provider will publish notice identifying the reasons for any such Reserve Zone adjustment, and

   the expected duration thereof. The Transmission Provider shall provide prior notice before the




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        46.0.0


   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market trading deadline for the Operating Day for

   any such Reserve Zone adjustment.

   f.     Product Requirements for Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability.

   The Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirements and Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability

   Requirements represent the need for Resources with ability to adjust their power outputs

   consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule 29 to respond

   to anticipated requirements which are projected from observed Real-Time Market-Wide Up

   Ramp Capability Requirements and Real-Time Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability

   Requirements. Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability MCPs and analysis of reliable

   delivery within transmission constraints incorporate the same Reserve Zones defined for

   Operating Reserve.

          i.      Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Product Requirements.

                  The day-ahead Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirement will be

                  established each day by the Transmission Provider to estimate the hourly average

                  Up Ramp Capability that will be required in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                  Reserve Market for the operating Hour. The day-ahead Market-Wide Up Ramp

                  Capability Requirement may vary on an Hourly basis. All Up Ramp Capability

                  cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be supplied

                  by Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified Resources. The percentage of Up

                  Ramp Capability cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                  on any individual Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II,

                  Electric Storage Resource, External Asynchronous Resource, or Distributed




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       46.0.0


                 Energy Aggregated Resource shall initially be limited to twenty percent of the

                 hourly day-ahead Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirement to the extent

                 that such limitation does not create Up Ramp Capability shortages or any other

                 adverse reliability related conditions. This individual Resource percentage limit

                 may be adjusted by the Transmission Provider to improve reliability, system

                 operations, and/or market efficiency.

          ii.    Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Product Requirements.

                 The day-ahead Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement will be

                 established each day by the Transmission Provider to estimate the hourly average

                 Down Ramp Capability that will be required in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market for the operating Hour. The day-ahead Market-Wide

                 Down Ramp Capability Requirement may vary on an Hourly basis. All Down

                 Ramp Capability cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 must be supplied by Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified Resources. The

                 percentage of Down Ramp Capability cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market on any individual Generation Resource, Demand

                 Response Resource – Type II, Electric Storage Resource, External Asynchronous

                 Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource shall initially be limited to

                 twenty percent of the hourly day-ahead Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability

                 Requirement to the extent that such limitation does not create Down Ramp

                 Capability shortages or any other adverse reliability related conditions. This




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       46.0.0


                 individual Resource percentage limit may be adjusted by the Transmission

                 Provider to improve reliability, system operations, and/or market efficiency.

   g.     Product Requirements for Short-Term Reserve.

   All cleared Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must

   be capable of real-time deployment within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period. All

   Short-Term Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be

   supplied by Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources.

          i.     Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

                 The Day-Ahead Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirements will be

                 established each day by the Transmission Provider. The Day-Ahead Market-Wide

                 Short-Term Reserve Requirements may vary on an Hourly basis.

          ii.    Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

                 The Day-Ahead Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements will be

                 established as necessary for a sub-region for the operating Hour to establish the

                 required Short-Term Reserve needed to be dispatched as Energy to restore flows

                 within limits following contingencies or abnormal events. Sub-Regional Short-

                 Term Reserve Requirements will be derived from rampable Capacity needs,

                 Energy schedules, and contractual constraints, such as the Sub-Regional Power

                 Balance Constraints, to ensure deliverability. Short-Term Reserve cleared to meet

                 Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements will also count towards the

                 Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

          iii.   Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       46.0.0


                 The Day-Ahead Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements will be established as

                 necessary for a Reserve Zone for the operating Hour to establish the required

                 Short-Term Reserve needed to be dispatched as Energy to restore flows within

                 limits following contingencies or abnormal events. Local Short-Term Reserve

                 Requirements will be derived from rampable Capacity needs, Energy schedules,

                 and transmission constraints to ensure deliverability. Short-Term Reserve cleared

                 to meet Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements will also count towards

                 applicable Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements and the Market-Wide

                 Short-Term Reserve Requirements.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        50.0.0


          The qualification requirements set forth below allow Regulating Reserve to serve as

   Spinning Reserve or Supplemental Reserve, and Spinning Reserve to serve as Supplemental

   Reserve. Accordingly, when it is more economic to do so, the Transmission Provider may make

   any of the following substitutions: Regulating Reserve for Spinning Reserve, Regulating

   Reserve for Supplemental Reserve, or Spinning Reserve for Supplemental Reserve.

   A.     Regulation Qualified Resources.

   All Regulation Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   shall meet all of the requirements for Regulation Qualified Resources specified in this Section.

   Only Regulation Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Regulating Reserve in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Regulation Qualified Resources in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the Energy and Operating

   Reserve Markets as Regulation Qualified Resources. All Resources registered as Regulation

   Qualified Resources must also be registered in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as

   Spin Qualified Resources and as Supplemental Qualified Resources, to allow cleared on-line

   Regulation Qualified Resources to supply Spinning Reserve or Supplemental Reserve through

   substitution of such Resources for Spin Qualified Resources or Supplemental Qualified

   Resources. All Regulation Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market must be physically located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area, or the

   entire Generation Resource must be pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and

   must remain pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model

   update, or the Resource must be an External Asynchronous Resource. All Regulation Qualified

   Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       50.0.0


   automatically responding to and alleviating frequency deviations through a speed governor or

   similar device in accordance with the Applicable Reliability Standards. All Regulation Qualified

   Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of

   supplying Regulating Reserve for a minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes. The

   Regulating Reserve Deployment on an Electric Storage Resource shall not exceed the energy

   storage capabilities of such Resource. All Regulation Qualified Resources supplying Regulation

   in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of receiving and

   responding to automatic control signals and must provide telemetered output data in accordance

   with the Business Practices Manuals. Regulation Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) committed Generation Resources that are not

   Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, (ii) available External Asynchronous Resources, (iii)

   committed Demand Response Resources - Type II, and (iv) committed Electric Storage

   Resources with a Charge, Discharge, or Continuous Commitment Status. A Market Participant

   may disqualify a Regulation Qualified Resource from supplying Regulating Reserve on an

   Hourly basis if physical operating restrictions make the Resource unable to deploy Regulating

   Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for Regulating Reserve established in

   Section 39.2.1A.a and the Business Practices Manuals.

   B.     Spin Qualified Resources.

   All Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall

   meet all of the requirements for Spin Qualified Resources specified in this Section. Only Spin

   Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Spinning Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        50.0.0


   Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as

   Spin Qualified Resources and as Supplemental Qualified Resources, to allow cleared Spin

   Qualified Resources to supply Supplemental Reserve.

   All Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be

   physically located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area or the entire Generation Resource

   must be pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and must remain pseudo-tied into

   the MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model update, or the Resource must

   be an External Asynchronous Resource. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market must comply with the requirements imposed by the Applicable

   Reliability Standards for Resources supplying Spinning Reserve and if applicable, frequency

   responsive Contingency Reserve. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying their cleared Spinning Reserve within

   the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period consistent with the Resource limit and ramping

   constraints as set forth in Schedule 29. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying their cleared Spinning Reserve,

   consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule 29, for a

   minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes. All Spin Qualified Resources supplying

   Spinning Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must provide

   telemetered output data or, in the case of a Demand Response Resource–Type I that is deployed

   for Contingency Reserve within the Hour, must provide a minimum of five-minute interval

   demand data within five (5) days for the Resource through the appropriate data communications

   equipment, as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals. Spin Qualified Resources in the Day-




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        50.0.0


   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to: (i) committed Generation

   Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources; (ii) uncommitted Demand Response

   Resources - Type I that have a Minimum Interruption Duration of sixty (60) minutes or less; (iii)

   committed Demand Response Resources – Type II; (iv) Electric Storage Resources with a

   Charge, Discharge, or Continuous Commitment Status; and (v) available External Asynchronous

   Resources. A Market Participant can disqualify a Spin Qualified Resource from supplying

   Spinning Reserve on an Hourly basis should physical operating restrictions make the Resource

   unable to deploy Spinning Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for Spinning

   Reserve established in Section 39.2.1A.b and the Business Practices Manuals. If a Resource is

   disqualified from providing Spinning Reserve, it is disqualified from providing Regulating

   Reserve.

   The Transmission Provider has the right to test Resources with Spin Qualified Resource status,

   or Resources seeking Spin Qualified Resource status, to determine whether the Spin Qualified

   Resource is capable of the deployment of Contingency Reserves in response to a Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period.

   In the event that the testing of a Resource is subsequent to a Spin Qualified Resource’s failure to

   respond to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction, such Resource shall receive the

   applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual Energy

   Injection of the Resource during the test or for the duration of the Resource's Minimum Run

   Time, whichever is longer. Additionally, the maximum amount of Spinning Reserve that can be

   offered from the Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be

   limited to the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         50.0.0


   Reserve Deployment Period achieved as a result of the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Instruction. Subsequent to a Spin Qualified Resource’s failure to respond to a Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Instruction, the Market Participant can request a test to provide evidence to

   remove the maximum limit.

   In the event that the Transmission Provider initiates a test of a Spin Qualified Resource that is

   not associated with the Spin Qualified Resource’s failure to respond to a Contingency Reserve

   Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period, the Resource shall

   be committed by the Transmission Provider and shall receive the applicable LMP in the Real-

   Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual Energy Injection of the Resource.

   To the extent that the Resource fails to respond fully to the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period during the test deployment, the

   maximum amount of Spinning Reserve that can be offered from the Resource in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be limited to the actual amount of Contingency

   Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period achieved during the

   test until the Resource achieves a higher level of output in a subsequent test.

   C.     Supplemental Qualified Resources.

   All Supplemental Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   must meet all of the requirements for Supplemental Qualified Resources specified in this

   Section. Only Supplemental Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Supplemental

   Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Supplemental Qualified

   Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the

   Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as Supplemental Qualified Resources. All Supplemental




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       50.0.0


   Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be physically

   located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area, or the entire Generation Resource must be

   pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and must remain pseudo-tied into the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model update, or the Resource must be

   an External Asynchronous Resource. All Supplemental Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying one-hundred percent

   (100%) of their cleared Contingency Reserve within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period. All Supplemental Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must be capable of deploying one-hundred percent (100%) of their cleared Contingency

   Reserve for a minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes. All Supplemental Qualified

   Resources supplying Supplemental Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must provide telemetered output data or, in the case of a Demand Response Resource–

   Type I that is deployed for Contingency Reserve within the Hour, must provide a minimum of

   five-minute interval demand data within five (5) days for the Resource through the appropriate

   data communications equipment, as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals. Supplemental

   Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to:

   (i) committed Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources; (ii)

   uncommitted Quick-Start Resources; (iii) uncommitted Demand Response Resources - Type I;

   (iv) committed Demand Response Resources - Type II; (v) Electric Storage Resources with a

   Charge, Discharge, Continuous, or Available Commitment Status; and (vi) available External

   Asynchronous Resources. Uncommitted Quick-Start Resources and uncommitted Demand

   Response Resources-Type I, must have a Minimum Run Time (or Minimum Interruption




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       50.0.0


   Duration, if a Demand Response Resource - Type I) of one-hundred-eighty (180) minutes or less

   in order to be classified as Supplemental Qualified Resources. A Market Participant can

   disqualify a Supplemental Qualified Resource from supplying Supplemental Reserve on an

   Hourly basis should physical operating restrictions make the Resource unable to deploy

   Supplemental Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for Supplemental Reserve

   established in Section 39.2.1A.b and the Business Practices Manuals. If a Resource is

   disqualified from providing Supplemental Reserve, it is disqualified from providing Regulating

   Reserve and Spinning Reserve.

   The Transmission Provider shall have the right to test Resources with Supplemental Qualified

   Resource status, or Resources seeking Supplemental Qualified Resource status, to determine

   whether the Supplemental Qualified Resource is capable of the deployment of Contingency

   Reserves in response to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Period.

   In the event that the testing of a Resource is subsequent to a Supplemental Qualified Resource’s

   failure to respond to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction, such Resource shall receive

   the applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual

   Energy Injection of the Resource during the test or for the duration of the Resource's Minimum

   Run Time, whichever is longer. Additionally, the maximum amount of Supplemental Reserve

   that can be offered from the Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   shall be limited to the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Period achieved as a result of the Contingency Reserve

   Deployment Instruction. Subsequent to a Supplemental Qualified Resource’s failure to respond




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         50.0.0


   fully to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction, the Market Participant can request a test

   to provide evidence to remove the maximum limit.

   In the event that the Transmission Provider initiates a test of a Supplemental Qualified Resource

   that is not associated with the Supplemental Qualified Resource’s failure to respond to a

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period, the Resource shall be committed by the Transmission Provider, shall receive the

   applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual Energy

   Injection of the Resource, and is eligible for Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit

   pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.c. To the extent that the Resource fails to respond fully to the

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period during the test deployment, the maximum amount of Supplemental Reserve that can be

   offered from the Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be

   limited to the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Period achieved during the test until the Resource achieves a higher level

   of output in a subsequent test.

   D.     Resource Requirements for Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability

   All Resources eligible to provide Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability in the

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be physically located within the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area, or the entire Generation Resource must be Pseudo-tied into the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area and must remain Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area

   until the next Network Model update, or the Resource must be an External Asynchronous

   Resource. All Resources eligible to provide Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       50.0.0


   must be dispatchable for Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and

   capable of changing resource Energy output consistent with the Resource limit and ramping

   constraints set forth in Schedule 29 within the Ramp Capability Response Time. Up Ramp

   Capability and Down Ramp Capability eligibility in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market will be limited to (i) committed Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable

   Intermittent Resources, (ii) available External Asynchronous Resources, (iii) committed Demand

   Response Resources - Type II; and (iv) Electric Storage Resources with a Charge, Discharge, or

   Continuous Commitment Status. Market Participants may disqualify a Resource from supplying

   Up and Down Ramp Capability on an Hourly basis using the Resource Offer Up and Down

   Ramp Capability Dispatch Status.

   E.     Resource Requirements for Short-Term Reserve

   All Resources eligible to provide Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market must be physically located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area, or the

   entire Generation Resource must be Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and

   must remain Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model

   update, or the Resource must be an External Asynchronous Resource.

   Resource requirements for on-line Resources providing Short-Term Reserve

   All on-line Resources eligible to provide Short-Term Reserve must be dispatchable for Energy in

   the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and capable of changing Resource Energy

   output consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints set forth in Schedule 29 within

   the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period. Short-Term Reserve eligibility for on-line

   Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i)




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       50.0.0


   committed Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources or Intermittent

   Resources, (ii) available External Asynchronous Resources; and (iii) committed Demand

   Response Resources - Type II. Market Participants may disqualify an on-line Resource from

   supplying Short-Term Reserve on an Hourly basis using the Resource Offer on-line Short-Term

   Reserve Dispatch Status.

   Resource requirements for off-line Resources providing Short-Term Reserve

   All Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market must meet all of the requirements for Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified

   Resources specified in this Section. Only Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources

   will be permitted to supply Short-Term Reserve while off-line in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market. All Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the Energy and Operating

   Reserve Markets as Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources. Short-Term Reserve

   eligibility for off-line Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be

   limited to uncommitted Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources. Uncommitted

   Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources - Type II, and Demand Response

   Resources-Type I, must be capable of achieving Economic Minimum Dispatch within the Short-

   Term Reserve Deployment Period and must have a Minimum Run Time (or Minimum

   Interruption Duration, if a Demand Response Resource - Type I) of two-hundred-forty (240)

   minutes or less in order to be classified as Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources.

   All Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market must be capable of deploying one-hundred percent (100%) of their cleared




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       50.0.0


   Short-Term Reserve within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources

   in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying one-

   hundred percent (100%) of their cleared Short-Term Reserve for a minimum continuous duration

   of sixty (60) minutes in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Off-Line

   Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources supplying Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market must provide telemetered output data for the Resource

   through the appropriate data communications equipment, as set forth in the Business Practices

   Manuals. A Market Participant can disqualify an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified

   Resource from supplying Short-Term Reserve on an Hourly basis using the Resource Offer off-

   line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status should physical operating restrictions make the

   Resource unable to deploy Short-Term Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for

   Short-Term Reserve established in Section 39.2.1A.g and the Business Practices Manuals.

   The Transmission Provider shall have the right to test Resources with Off-Line Short-Term

   Reserve Qualified Resource status, or Resources seeking Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified

   Resource status, to determine whether the Resource is capable of the deployment of Short-Term

   Reserves within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period.

   In the event that the Transmission Provider initiates a test of an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

   Qualified Resource, the Resource shall be committed by the Transmission Provider, shall receive

   the applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual

   Energy Injection of the Resource, and is eligible for Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

   Credit pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.c.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          39.2.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        50.0.0


   Before January 1, 2022, existing eligible Resources shall self-certify as an Off-Line Short-Term

   Reserve Qualified Resources. After January 1, 2022, certification as an Off-Line Short-Term

   Reserve Qualified Resource for all eligible new Resources shall require passing a Transmission

   Provider initiated test. An eligible new Resource that tests and qualifies as a Supplemental

   Qualified Resource will not need to undergo additional testing to qualify as an Off-Line Short-

   Term Reserve Qualified Resource.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       39.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Bid Rules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                    34.0.0


   Demand Bid Rules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

   a.     General Demand Bid Rules. Market Participants that intend to purchase Energy in the

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall submit Fixed Demand Bids and/or Price

   Sensitive Demand Bids and shall provide the Bid information specified in this Section. Only

   Market Participants that have demonstrated to the Transmission Provider’s satisfaction that they

   are Load Serving Entities or are purchasing on behalf of Load Serving Entities may submit

   Demand Bids. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a list of Commercial Pricing Nodes

   that may be specified in Demand Bids by Market Participants.

   b.     Fixed Demand Bid Components. Fixed Demand Bids shall include:

          i.     The Commercial Pricing Node registered by the Market Participant for which it

                 intends to purchase the designated MWh of Energy.

          ii.    Hourly MWh quantities, with a default of zero (0) MWh.

   c.     Price Sensitive Demand Bid Data. Price Sensitive Demand Bids shall include:

          i.     Commercial Pricing Node registered by the Market Participant for which it

                 intends to purchase the designated MWh of Energy.

          ii.    A maximum of nine (9) bid blocks for each Hour, where each Bid block specifies

                 a maximum price ($/MWh), and MWh quantity.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                           39.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 External Demand
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


          All Market Participants may purchase Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market through Export Schedules as described in Section 39.1.4 and will be settled at

   the Commercial Pricing Node defined as the Interface or at the External Asynchronous

   Resources Commercial Pricing Node for each Export Schedule. Load external to the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area may be included as part of the Transmission Provider Region if that

   Load registers through an existing Local Balancing Authority (LBA) and Pseudo-ties into the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area through that existing LBA.




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                            39.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Specifications for Virtual Bids
MODULES                                                                                         34.0.0


   a.     General Virtual Bid Rules. Market Participants that intend to purchase Virtual Energy

   in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall provide the Bid information

   specified in this Section. Market Participants may purchase Virtual Energy at any Commercial

   Pricing Node. Virtual Bids may not be used to purchase Operating Reserve.

   b.     Virtual Bid Components. Virtual Bids shall include:

          i.     The Commercial Pricing Node where the Market Participant desires to purchase

                 the designated MWh of Energy.

          ii.    A maximum of nine (9) bid blocks for each Hour, where each Bid block specifies

                 a maximum price ($/MWh) and MWh quantity.




                                                                   Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


   Generation Offer and Demand Response Resource Type - II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

   Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market shall provide the information specified in this Section. Generation Offers and

   Demand Response Resource – Type II Offers shall be submitted in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market only for registered Generation Resources and registered Demand

   Response Resources–Type II. Generation Offers and Demand Response Resource–Type II

   Offers will remain in effect for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market until

   specifically superseded by subsequent Generation Offers or Demand Response Resource–Type II

   Offers. Each Market Participant may only submit a single Generation Offer or Demand

   Response Resource – Type II Offer for each individual Resource.

          a.     Eligibility to Supply. Generation Resources or Demand Response Resources-

                 Type II may supply Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Market if the Transmission Provider has certified the Resource is capable of

                 responding to five (5) minute Dispatch Targets for Energy and has the appropriate

                 telemetry installed as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals. A Generation

                 Resource or Demand Response Resource–Type II may not (i) offer Energy, (ii)

                 offer and/or supply Operating Reserve, (iii) offer and/or supply Up Ramp

                 Capability or Down Ramp Capability, or (iv) offer and/or supply Short-Term

                 Reserve unless such Resource has been included in the Network Model. A

                 Market Participant’s Generation Resources or Demand Response Resources–Type




                                                                       Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                 II can supply Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve Up

                 Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has

                 certified that the Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, Spin Qualified

                 Resource, Supplemental Qualified Resource, Up and Down Ramp Capability

                 Qualified Resource, and/or Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource, respectively.

                 Market Participants that offer to supply Day-Ahead Energy, Regulating Reserve,

                 Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

                 Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide the Offer information

                 specified below.

          b.     Required Generation Offer and Demand Response Resource–Type II Offer

                 Components. Market Participants that submit Generation Offers and/or Demand

                 Response Resource–Type II Offers shall include an Energy Offer curve, a

                 Regulating Capacity Offer and a Regulating Mileage Offer (if a Regulation

                 Qualified Resource), a Spinning Reserve Offer (if a Spin Qualified Resource), an

                 On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Supplemental Qualified Resource but

                 not a Spin Qualified Resource), an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a

                 Quick-Start Resource), an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer (if an Off-Line

                 Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource), a Start-Up Offer, a No-Load Offer, an

                 Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and an on-line and off-line

                 Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status Offer. Market Participants can provide

                 Generation Offers and/or Demand Response Resource – Type II Offers for the




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                 full MW range of their Operable Capacity, from the Hourly Emergency Minimum

                 Limit to the Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit and may indicate, as part of the

                 Offer, that the Generation Resource or Demand Response Resource–Type II is

                 only available to be committed during an Emergency. Market Participants may

                 submit Generation Offers and/or Demand Response Resource–Type II Offers to

                 the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market up to seven (7) Days prior

                 to the Operating Day, and may modify these Generation Offers and/or Demand

                 Response Resource–Type II Offers up until the time the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market closes, as specified in Section 39.1.1. Market

                 Participants may submit a Generation Offer and/or Demand Response Resource–

                 Type II Offer that contains zero dollar ($0) amounts for No-Load and Start-Up

                 Offers, in which case only the Energy Offer curve, Regulating Capacity Offer and

                 Regulating Mileage Offer (if applicable), Spinning Reserve Offer (if applicable),

                 On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if applicable), Off-Line Supplemental

                 Reserve Offer (if applicable), Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer (if applicable),

                 Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and/or online or off-line

                 Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status Offer will be considered in the market

                 clearing process pursuant to Section 39.2.9. Any limits on the Offer over the full

                 quantity (MW) range of the Operable Capacity must be consistent with Module

                 D. A single Generation Offer or Demand Response Resource–Type II Offer may

                 be submitted in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for each

                 Hour of the Operating Day for which the Market Participant is willing to sell




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                 Energy and Operating Reserve from a given Resource. The Transmission

                 Provider shall maintain a Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 Generation Offer and/or Demand Response Resource–Type II Offer for each

                 Resource. These Offers are standing Offers and are maintained for the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market independent of the Real-Time

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market. These Offers may be updated prior to the

                 close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. Generation

                 Resource and/or Demand Response Resource–Type II Offer components are as

                 follows:

                 i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve shall be expressed for each

                        Hour in $/MWh and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear

                        Offer curve of up to ten (10) segments, shall be monotonically increasing,

                        and shall cover the full operating range, including the Hourly Emergency

                        Minimum Limit and Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit.

                 ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. For DRR –

                        Type II Resources, the Regulating Capacity Offer shall be expressed for

                        each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a stepped or a

                        piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be

                        monotonically increasing and is only applicable to Regulation Qualified

                        Resources. For Generation Resources, the Regulating Capacity Offer

                        shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only

                        applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources. The Regulating Mileage




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                        Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only

                        applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources. If the Regulating Capacity

                        Offer is negative, then the Regulating Mileage Offer must be $0/MW.

                 iii.   Spinning Reserve Offer. For DRR-Type II Resources, the Spinning

                        Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall

                        consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three

                        (3) segments and shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable

                        to Spin Qualified Resources. For Generation Resources, the Spinning

                        Reserve Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW

                        and is only applicable to Spin Qualified Resources.

                 iv.    On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II Resources, the

                        On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                        $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear

                        Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing

                        and is only applicable to Supplemental Qualified Resources. For

                        Generation Resources, the On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be a

                        single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to

                        synchronized Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not Spin

                        Qualified Resources.

                 v.     Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II Resources, the

                        Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                        $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                         Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing

                         and is only applicable to Resources that are uncommitted Quick-Start

                         Resources. For Generation Resources, the Off-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW

                         and is only applicable to Resources that are uncommitted Quick-Start

                         Resources.

                 vi.     Start-Up Offer. The Start-Up Offer shall be expressed for each Day in

                         $/start. A separate Start-Up Offer shall be submitted for hot, intermediate,

                         and cold Start-Up conditions.

                 vii.    No-Load Offer. The No-Load Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                         $/Hour.

                 viii.   Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be specified

                         for the Generation Resource or Demand Response Resource–Type II at the

                         time the asset is registered. The Commercial Pricing Node type shall not

                         be a Load Zone, Interface, or Hub. A Demand Response Resource–Type

                         II cannot be modeled using an Aggregate Pricing Node.

                 ix.     Hourly Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include an Hourly Ramp Rate,

                         expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. If no Hourly Ramp Rate is

                         submitted, the default ramp rate specified during the asset registration

                         process will be used and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                         Market Portal.

                 x.      Hourly Economic Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                           39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        57.0.0


                         Economic Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                         Economic Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used.

                         The default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                         be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xi.     Hourly Economic Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Economic Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall

                         not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the

                         Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is

                         designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR, unless such portion is

                         unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other physical operating

                         restrictions. If no Hourly Economic Maximum Limit is submitted, the

                         default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                         registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                         Market Portal.

                 xii.    Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Emergency Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                         used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process

                         and can be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xiii.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Emergency Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall

                         not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is

                        designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR, unless such portion is

                        unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other physical operating

                        restrictions. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit is submitted, the

                        default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                        registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                        Market Portal.

                 xiv.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the

                        Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource and subject to the transitional

                        must offer requirements specified under Section 39.1.1A.b, an Hourly

                        Regulation Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall

                        not be used to withhold a portion of the Regulating Reserve capability of a

                        Resource from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                        such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR

                        during the transitional must offer requirement period specified under

                        Section 39.1.1A.b unless the Resource is unavailable due to a forced or

                        planned outage or the Resource is not qualified to supply Regulating

                        Reserve due to physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Regulation

                        Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default

                        limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                        by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xv.    Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                           39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        57.0.0


                         Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource and subject to the transitional

                         must offer requirements specified under Section 39.1.1A.b, an Hourly

                         Regulation Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall

                         not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the

                         Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is

                         designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR during the transitional

                         must offer requirement period specified under Section 39.1.1A.b unless

                         the Resource is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or the

                         Resource is not qualified to supply Regulating Reserve due to physical

                         operating restrictions. If no Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit is

                         submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified

                         during the asset registration process and can be updated by Market

                         Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xvi.    Minimum Run Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Run Time,

                         expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xvii.   Maximum Run Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Run Time,

                         expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xviii. Minimum Down Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Down Time,

                         expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xix.    Start-Up Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate, and cold

                         Start-Up Time, each of which is expressed for each Hour in Hours and/or

                         Minutes.




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                 xx.     Start-Up Notification Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate,

                         and cold Start-Up Notification Time, each of which is expressed for each

                         Hour in Hours and/or Minutes.

                 xxi.    Maximum Off-Line Response Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                         Off-Line Response Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. This

                         requirement applies to Quick-Start Resources only. If no hourly

                         Maximum Off-Line Response Limit is submitted, the default Maximum

                         Off-Line Response Limit will be used. The default limit is specified

                         during the asset registration process and can be updated by Market

                         Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xxii.   Maximum Start-Up Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum Start-Up

                         Limit, expressed for each Day in Starts per Day.

                 xxiii. Maximum Daily Energy. An Offer shall include specification of a

                         Maximum Daily Energy amount, if applicable, expressed for each Day in

                         MWh.

                 xxiv. Hot-to-Intermediate Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Intermediate

                         Time, expressed for each Day in Hours and/or minutes.

                 xxv.    Hot-to-Cold Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Cold Time, expressed

                         for each Day in Hours and/or minute.

                 xxvi. Commitment Status. An Offer shall include specification of a

                         Commitment Status for each Hour. Valid Commitment Status

                         specifications include: Economic, Must-Run, Emergency, Outage and Not




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                       Participating. An Economic Commitment Status indicates the

                       Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the Resource on an

                       economic basis for the Hour. A Must-Run Commitment Status indicates

                       that the Market Participant is self-committing the Resource for the Hour.

                       An Emergency Commitment Status indicates that the Resource is an AME

                       Resource and that the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the

                       Resource only under an Emergency condition for the Hour. The

                       Emergency Commitment Status will not be available to any Resource

                       unless it has satisfied the conditions set forth in this Section 39.2.5.b.xxvi.

                       An Outage Commitment Status indicates the Resource is not available for

                       commitment during the Hour due to a planned or forced outage. A Not

                       Participating Commitment Status indicates the Market Participant will not

                       operate a Resource that is otherwise available. The Not Participating

                       Commitment Status will not be available to any Resource that has all or a

                       portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, or that has been

                       committed in the FRAC process.

                       In order to submit an Offer with an Emergency Commitment Status, a

                       Resource must meet one of the following conditions: i) the AME

                       Resource has an operating limit established by regulation (e.g, permits or

                       federal and state laws or regulations) where the AME Resource can only

                       be accessed during an Emergency to preserve its reliability value; ii) the

                       Offer is based on a demonstrated severe energy limit, including but not




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                        limited to a fuel shortage affecting the Resource’s capability to respond to

                        three days of Emergency conditions; or, iii) the operating configuration of

                        the Resource is inconsistent with “good utility practice” due to potential

                        damage to equipment that is significant and difficult to quantify. Each of

                        these conditions are further described in Business Practice Manual -009

                        Market Monitoring and Mitigation. A Market Participant for a Resource

                        which does not satisfy any of these conditions may designate a Resource

                        as an AME Resource and use the Emergency Commitment Status through

                        consultation with the IMM as set forth in section 64.3.d of Module D.

                 xxvii. Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an Energy

                        Dispatch Status for Energy for each Hour. Valid Energy Dispatch Status

                        specifications include: Economic and Self-Schedule.

                        An Economic Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission

                        Provider is authorized to economically clear Energy on the Resource for

                        the Hour. A Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Energy on the Resource for the

                        Hour. The Energy Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are

                        committed for the Hour. DRR – Type II is not allowed to designate Self

                        Schedule Energy Dispatch Status.

                 xxviii. Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                        of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating Reserve for each

                        Hour. Valid Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                        Economic, Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An

                        Economic Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Regulating

                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour.

                        A Self-Schedule Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Regulating Reserve on the Resource

                        for the Hour. A Not Qualified Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Regulating Reserve

                        for an Hour. A Not Participating Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates the Market Participant will not provide Regulating Reserve on a

                        Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide Regulating Reserve. The

                        Not Participating Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status will not be available

                        to any Resource that has all or a portion of its capacity designated as a

                        Capacity Resource for the first 180 days of the Energy and Operating

                        Reserve Market. The Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to

                        Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) registered as

                        Regulation Qualified Resources.

                 xxix. Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of

                        a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve for each Hour.

                        Valid Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                        Economic, Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An Economic Spinning

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                        authorized to economically clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the

                        Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that

                        the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Spinning Reserve on the

                        Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve

                        for an Hour. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not

                        Qualified for a specific Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in

                        that Hour.

                        For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                        Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to

                        Section 39.2.5.b.xxiii of the Tariff in order to not participate in providing

                        Spinning Reserve. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to

                        Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) are registered as Spin

                        Qualified Resources.

                 xxx.   On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve for each Hour. Valid On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule

                        and Not Qualified. An Economic On-Line Supplemental Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                        economically clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                        the Resource is committed. A Self-Schedule On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-

                        Scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the

                        Resource is committed. A Not Qualified On-Line Supplemental Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide

                        Supplemental Reserve for an Hour as a committed Resource. For a

                        Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market Participant

                        must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to Section

                        39.2.5.b.xxiii of the Tariff in order to not participate in providing On-Line

                        Supplemental Reserve. The On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour, ii)

                        registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources and, iii) not registered as

                        Spin Qualified. Resources or have been disqualified by the Market

                        Participant as Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.

                 xxxi. Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve for each Hour. Valid Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Emergency,

                        Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Off-

                        Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-Line

                        Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                        uncommitted.

                        An Emergency Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-

                        Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource

                        is uncommitted and all available Resources with an Economic Commit

                        Status have been committed. A Self-Schedule Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-

                        Scheduling Off-Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour

                        if the Resource is uncommitted. A Not Qualified Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to

                        provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve for an Hour as an uncommitted

                        Quick-Start Resource.

                        A Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates the Market Participant will not provide Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve on an uncommitted Resource that is otherwise qualified to

                        provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve. The Not Participating Off-Line

                        Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status will not be available to any

                        Resource that has all or a portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity

                        Resource. The Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only

                        applies to Resources that are uncommitted for the Hour and registered as

                        Quick-Start Resources.

                 xxxii. Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                      Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                        specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status which

                        applies to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability for each

                        Hour. Valid Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status specifications

                        include: Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down

                        Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider

                        is authorized to economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or Down

                        Ramp Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Up

                        and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                        shall not be cleared to supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp

                        Capability for an Hour.

                        The Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies to

                        Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) have offered an

                        Energy Dispatch Status of Economic for the Hour.

                 xxxiii. On-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for each

                        Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                        Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                        economically clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A

                        Not Participating Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for the Hour.

                 xxxiv. Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include




                                                                       Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                        39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                     Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     57.0.0


                       specification of an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for each

                       Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                       Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve

                       Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                       economically clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A

                       Not Participating Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                       Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for the Hour.

                 xxxv. Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II Resources, the

                       Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                       $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear

                       Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing

                       and is only applicable to Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified

                       Resources. For Generation Resources, the Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                       Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only

                       applicable to Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources.

                 xxxvi. Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit. An Offer shall

                       include a Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit,

                       expressed for each Hour in MW. This requirement applies to Off-Line

                       Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources only. If no hourly Maximum

                       Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit is submitted, the default

                       Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit will be used.

                       The default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                        be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal. The Maximum

                        Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response limit must be greater than or

                        equal to the Resource’s Economic Minimum Dispatch.

          c.     Values in Offers. The values in Offers representing the non-price information

                 identified in Section 39.2.5.b. shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities

                 and characteristics of the Generation Resource and/or Demand Response

                 Resource–Type II on which the Offer is based, except that the Hourly Emergency

                 Maximum Limit and Hourly Economic Maximum Limit of a Generation

                 Resource may, at the discretion of the Market Participant, be reduced by an

                 amount equal to any Capacity associated with the Resource that is not designated

                 as a Capacity Resource and that is not (i) providing Energy Operating Reserve,

                 Up Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve to the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market and (ii) providing Energy Operating Reserve, Up

                 Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve to any other party or entity.

                 Notwithstanding the foregoing, the values in Offers representing the non-price

                 information identified in Section 39.2.5.b shall reflect any operating limitation,

                 such as thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage

                 Operations, provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to

                 preserve the reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual

                 known physical capabilities and characteristics of the Generation Resource and/or

                 Demand Response Resource– Type II on which the Offer is based.

          d.     Combined Cycle Units. A Generation Offer for a Generation Resource with




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                 combined cycle capability shall be submitted as either an independent Offer for

                 each combustion turbine (CT) and steam turbine (ST) with an alternate steam or

                 thermal source or an aggregate Offer for the combined cycle combustion turbine

                 (CCCT) unit, not both. This selection is made on a daily basis.

          e.     Jointly Owned Generation Resource. Each Market Participant may submit a

                 Generation Offer, including Start-up and No-Load Offers, for their respective

                 ownership of a Jointly Owned Generation Resource as long as each share of the

                 Jointly Owned Generation Resource is modeled as an independent Resource in

                 the Network Model and Commercial Models. Each share of a Jointly Owned

                 Generation Resource will be considered an independent Generation Resource.

                 Therefore, a Market Participant may Pseudo-tie its entire share of a Jointly

                 Owned Generation Resource into the MISO Balancing Authority Area for the

                 purpose of providing Operating Reserve to the Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Markets.

          f.     Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and Floor.

                 The following Offer price caps and floors will apply to Generation Resources and

                 Demand Response Resource – Type II in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market:

                 i.     Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh, applied to non-Verified

                        Energy Offers, and non-Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers.

                        Energy Offers, and the components of Fast Start Resource All-In Energy

                        Offers, above the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap, submitted before the Day-




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


                         Ahead Energy and Operating Reserves Market close, but not verified by

                         the Independent Market Monitor until after market clearing, will be used

                         in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                         Credits in accordance with section 39.3.2B of this Tariff.

                 ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy

                         Offers and Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers. Verified

                         Energy Offers, and the components of Verified Fast Start Resource All-In

                         Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap will be used in the

                         determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in

                         accordance with section 39.3.2B of this Tariff.

                 iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh for Generation Resources

                         and Net Benefits Price Threshold for Demand Response Resources Type-

                         II.

                 iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour

                 v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                 vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/ Hour

                 vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                 viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW

                 ix.     Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

                 x.      Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour




                                                                           Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


    Demand Response Resource - Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market

          Market Participants that intend to supply Energy and Contingency Reserve from a

   Demand Response Resource-Type I in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   shall provide the information specified in this Section. Demand Response Resource-Type I

   Offers shall be submitted in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for

   registered Demand Response Resources-Type I. Demand Response Resource-Type I Offers will

   remain in effect for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market until specifically

   superseded by subsequent Demand Response Resource-Type I Offers. Each Market Participant

   may only submit a single Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer for each individual Demand

   Response Resource-Type I.

          a.     Eligibility to Supply. Demand Response Resources – Type I may supply Energy

                 in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission

                 Provider has certified the Resource is capable of responding to hourly demand

                 reduction instructions and has data communication equipment installed that can

                 provide metering data in accordance with Attachment TT. A Market Participant’s

                 Demand Response Resource - Type I may supply Spinning Reserve in the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has

                 certified that the Resource is a Spin Qualified Resource, Supplemental Reserve in

                 the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission

                 Provider has certified that the Resource is a Supplemental Qualified Resource, or

                 Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                 the Transmission Provider has certified that the Resource is a Short-Term Reserve

                 Qualified Resource. Demand Response Resources – Type I may not supply Up

                 Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability because they are not required to

                 respond to five (5) minute Dispatch Targets for Energy. Market Participants that

                 offer to supply Day-Ahead Energy, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve,

                 and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide the Offer information specified below.

          b.     Required Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Components. For

                 Demand Response Resources-Type I that are Spin Qualified Resources, a Market

                 Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a Spinning Reserve Offer, a

                 Supplemental Reserve Offer, a Shut-Down Offer, an Hourly Curtailment Offer,

                 an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer, a Demand Response Resource – Type I

                 Contingency Reserve status and an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status.

                 For Demand Response Resources-Type I that are not Spin Qualified Resources

                 but which qualify as a Supplemental Qualified Resource, a Market Participant

                 may submit a Supplemental Reserve Offer, an Energy Offer curve, a Shut-Down

                 Offer, an Hourly Curtailment Offer, an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer, and

                 an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. For Demand Response

                 Resources - Type I that are neither Spin Qualified Resources nor Supplemental

                 Qualified Resources, but which qualify as an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                 Qualified Resource, a Market Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a

                 Shut-Down Offer, an Hourly Curtailment Offer, an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                 Offer, and an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. For Demand




                                                                          Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                 Response Resources - Type I that are not Spin Qualified Resources, Supplemental

                 Qualified Resources, or Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources, a

                 Market Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a Shut-Down Offer, and an

                 Hourly Curtailment Offer for the purposes of offering Energy only. A Market

                 Participant may indicate, as part of the Offer, that the Demand Response Resource

                 - Type I is only available to be committed for Energy during an Emergency or

                 that it is only available to be cleared for Contingency Reserve during an

                 Emergency. Market Participants may submit Demand Response Resource – Type

                 I Offers to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market up to seven (7)

                 Days prior to the Operating Day and may modify these Demand Response

                 Resource - Type I Offers up until the time the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market closes, as specified in Section 39.1.1.

                 i.     Energy Offer Curve: The Energy Offer curve shall be expressed for

                        each Hour in $/MWh and shall consist of a stepped, single segment

                        representation at the Targeted Demand Reduction Level.

                 ii.    Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be expressed

                        for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a stepped or a

                        piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, and shall be

                        monotonically increasing. A Spinning Reserve Offer only applies if the

                        Demand Response Resource - Type I is a Spin Qualified Resource.

                 iii.   Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be

                        expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                       stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, and

                       shall be monotonically increasing. A Supplemental Reserve Offer only

                       applies if the Demand Response Resource -Type I is a Supplemental

                       Qualified Resource.

                 iv.   Shut-Down Offer. A Shut-Down Offer is expressed for each Day in

                       $/shut-down.

                 v.    Hourly Curtailment Offer. An Hourly Curtailment Offer is expressed

                       for each Hour in $/Hour.

                 vi.   Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency Reserve Status.

                       An Offer shall include a Demand Response Resource – Type I

                       Contingency Reserve status, expressed for each Day. The Demand

                       Response Resource – Type I Contingency Reserve status shall specify

                       whether the Demand Response Resource – Type I will be cleared and

                       deployed in the same manner as Resources clearing and deploying on-line

                       Spinning or Supplemental Reserve, or whether the Demand Response

                       Resource – Type I will be cleared and deployed in the same manner as off-

                       line Resources clearing and deploying Supplemental Reserves. If a

                       Demand Response Resource – Type I elects to clear and deploy in the

                       same manner as Resources clearing and deploying on-line Spinning or

                       Supplemental Reserve, any Resource commitments made for Contingency

                       Reserve Deployment events will not be SCUC Instructed Hours of

                       Operation.




                                                                          Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


                         If a Demand Response Resource – Type I elects to clear and deploy in the

                         same manner as off-line Resources clearing and deploying Supplemental

                         Reserves, any Resource commitments made for Contingency Reserve

                         Deployment events will be SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation.

                 vii.    Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be

                         specified for the Demand Response Resource–Type I. The Commercial

                         Pricing Node cannot be an Interface, Load Zone, or Hub, but may be an

                         Aggregate Price Node. The Commercial Pricing Node can include an

                         aggregation of Elemental Pricing Zones or portions of Elemental Pricing

                         Nodes all within a single Local Balancing Authority Area and based on

                         the EPNodes for Demand Response Resources Type - I registered by the

                         Market Participant.

                 viii.   Reserved.

                 ix.     Targeted Demand Reduction Level. An Offer for a Demand Response

                         Resource - Type I shall include a Targeted Demand Reduction Level,

                         expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a

                         portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the Day-Ahead Energy and

                         Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity was used to calculate the

                         Seasonal Accredited Capacity of a designated Capacity Resource pursuant

                         to Section 69, unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned

                         outage or other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Targeted

                         Demand Reduction Level is submitted, the default Targeted Demand




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


                         Reduction Level specified during the asset registration process will be

                         used.

                 x.      Minimum Interruption Duration. An Offer shall include a Minimum

                         Interruption Duration, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xi.     Maximum Interruption Duration. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                         Interruption Duration, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xii.    Minimum Non-Interruption Interval. An Offer shall include a

                         Minimum Non-Interruption Interval, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xiii.   Maximum Interruption Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                         Interruption Limit, expressed for each Day in number of interruptions per

                         Day.

                 xiv.    Maximum Daily Energy. An Offer shall include specification of a

                         Maximum Daily Energy amount, if applicable, expressed for each Day in

                         MWh.

                 xv.     Shut-Down Time. An Offer shall include a Shut-Down Time, expressed

                         for each Hour in Hours and/or Minutes.

                 xvi.    Shut-Down Notification Time. An Offer shall include a Shut-Down

                         Notification Time, expressed for each Hour in Hours and/or Minutes.

                 xvii.   Energy Commitment Status. An Offer shall include specification of an

                         Energy Commitment Status for each Hour. Valid Energy Commitment

                         Status specifications include: Economic, Emergency and Not

                         Participating. An Economic Commitment Status indicates the




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                        Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the Resource to provide

                        Energy for the Hour on an economic basis.

                        An Emergency Commitment Status indicates that the Resource is an AME

                        Resource and that the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the

                        Resource to provide Energy for the Hour under Emergency conditions

                        only. The Emergency Commitment Status will not be available to any

                        Resource unless it has satisfied the conditions set forth in Section

                        39.2.5.b.xxvi. A Not Participating Commitment Status indicates the

                        Market Participant will not provide Energy for the Hour from the

                        Resource, but the Resource could be available for Contingency Reserve

                        depending on the Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status and/or Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status, as described below.

                        For a Demand Response Resource-Type I that is a designated Capacity

                        Resource, the Not Participating Commitment Status may only be selected

                        if such Resource is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other

                        physical operating restrictions.

                 xviii. Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                        of a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid

                        Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-

                        Schedule, Emergency, Not Qualified and Not Participating.

                        An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Spinning




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-scheduling

                        Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. An Emergency Spinning

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Transmission Provide is authorized

                        to clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource only under Emergency

                        Conditions. A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Resource is not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an

                        Hour. A Not Participating Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the

                        Market Participant will not provide Spinning Reserve on a Resource that

                        is otherwise qualified to provide Spinning Reserve. For a Demand

                        Response Resource–Type I that is a designated Capacity Resource, the

                        Not Participating Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status may only be selected

                        if such Resource is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other

                        physical operating restrictions. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                        only applies to Demand Response Resources - Type I that are i)

                        uncommitted for the Hour and ii) registered as Spin Qualified Resources.

                 xix.   Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of a Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for Supplemental

                        Reserve. Valid Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status specifications

                        include: Economic, Self-Schedule, Emergency, Not Qualified and Not

                        Participating.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                        An Economic Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Supplemental

                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-

                        scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour.

                        An Emergency Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to clear Supplemental Reserve on the

                        Resource only under Emergency Conditions. A Not Qualified

                        Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not

                        qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve for an Hour. A Not

                        Participating Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market

                        Participant will not provide Supplemental Reserve on a Resource that is

                        otherwise qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve. For a Demand

                        Response Resource–Type I that is a designated Capacity Resource, the

                        Not Participating Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status may only be

                        selected if such Resource is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage

                        or other physical operating restrictions.

                        The Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Demand

                        Response Resources-Type I that i) are uncommitted for the Hour and ii)

                        are registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources.

                 xxi.   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. Valid




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


                         Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and

                         Not Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status

                         indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                         clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not

                         Participating Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                         Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for an Hour.

                         The Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Demand

                         Response Resources-Type I that i) are uncommitted for the Hour and ii)

                         are registered as Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources.

                 xxii.   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer. The Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                         Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall consist of

                         either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3)

                         segments, and shall be monotonically increasing. An Off-Line Short-Term

                         Reserve Offer only applies if the Demand Response Resource -Type I is

                         an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource.

          c.     Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Cap and

                 Floors. The following Offer price caps and floors will apply to Demand

                 Response Resources – Type I Offers in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market:

                 i.      Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh, applied to non-Verified

                         Energy Offers, and non-Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers.

                         Energy Offers, and the components of Fast Start Resource All-In Energy




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5A
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    48.0.0


                        Offers, above the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap, submitted before the Day-

                        Ahead Energy and Operating Reserves Market close, but not verified by

                        the Independent Market Monitor until after market clearing, will be used

                        in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                        Credits in accordance with section 39.3.2B of this Tariff, provided that the

                        cost verification process for DRR – Type I Offers above that threshold

                        shall be different and suitable for such types of Resources, as determined

                        and implemented by the Independent Market Monitor.

                 ii.    Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy

                        Offers, and Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers. Verified

                        Energy Offers, and the components of Verified Fast Start Resource All-In

                        Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap will be used in the

                        determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in

                        accordance with section 39.3.2B of this Tariff, provided that the cost

                        verification process for DRR – Type I Offers above that threshold shall be

                        different and suitable for such types of Resources, as determined and

                        implemented by the Independent Market Monitor.

                 iii.   Energy Offer Price Floor: Net Benefits Price Threshold.

                 iv.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

                 v.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                 vi.    Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

                 vii.   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


   External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market:

          Market Participants that intend to supply Energy Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve from an External Asynchronous

   Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall provide the information

   specified in this Section.

          External Asynchronous Resource Offers shall be submitted in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market only for qualified External Asynchronous Resources. External

   Asynchronous Resource Offers shall remain in effect for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market until specifically superseded by subsequent External Asynchronous Resource

   Offers. Each Market Participant shall only submit a single External Asynchronous Resource

   Offer for each individual External Asynchronous Resource.

          a.      Eligibility to Supply. A Market Participant’s External Asynchronous Resources

                  may supply Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                  the Transmission Provider has certified the Resource is capable of responding to

                  five (5) minute Dispatch Targets for Energy and has the appropriate telemetry

                  installed as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals.

                  A Market Participant’s External Asynchronous Resources can supply Regulating

                  Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down

                  Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                  Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has certified that the

                  Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, a Spin Qualified Resource, a




                                                                          Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                        39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                   External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 Supplemental Qualified Resource, Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified

                 Resource, and/or Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource, respectively. Market

                 Participants that offer to supply Day-Ahead Energy, Regulating Reserve,

                 Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

                 Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide the Offer information

                 specified below for each individual External Asynchronous Resource.

          b.     Required External Asynchronous Resource Offer Components. All External

                 Asynchronous Resources can submit an Offer for Energy, an Up and Down Ramp

                 Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch

                 Status Offer. For External Asynchronous Resources that are Regulation Qualified

                 Resources, a Market Participant may submit a Regulating Capacity Offer and a

                 Regulating Mileage Offer. For External Asynchronous Resources that are Spin

                 Qualified Resources, a Market Participant may submit a Spinning Reserve Offer.

                 For External Asynchronous Resources that are not Spin Qualified Resources but

                 which qualify as a Supplemental Qualified Resource, a Market Participant may

                 submit a Supplemental Reserve Offer. Market Participants can provide External

                 Asynchronous Resource Offers for the full MW range of their Operable Capacity.

                 Market Participants may submit External Asynchronous Resource Offers to the

                 Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market up to seven (7) Days prior to

                 the Operating Day and may modify these External Asynchronous Resource Offers

                 up until the time the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market closes, as

                 specified in Section 39.1.1.




                                                                      Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                  External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     45.0.0


                 A single External Asynchronous Resource Offer may be submitted in the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for each Hour of the Operating Day

                 for a given External Asynchronous Resource. The Transmission Provider shall

                 maintain a Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer for each

                 External Asynchronous Resource. These Offers are standing Offers and are

                 maintained for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 independent of the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. These

                 Offers may be updated prior to the closing of the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market. External Asynchronous Resource Offer components

                 are as follows:

                 i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve shall be expressed for each

                        Hour in $/MWh and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear

                        Offer curve of up to ten (10) segments, shall be monotonically increasing,

                        and shall cover the full operating range. The Energy Offer Curve may

                        include negative MW and/or negative price segments.

                 ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. The

                        Regulating Capacity Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour

                        in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to External Asynchronous

                        Resources that are Regulation Qualified Resources. The Regulating

                        Mileage Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW

                        and is only applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources. If the

                        Regulating Capacity Offer is negative, then the Regulating Mileage Offer




                                                                       Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                           39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                      External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         45.0.0


                         must be $0/MW.

                 iii.    Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be a single

                         value expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to

                         External Asynchronous Resources that are Spin Qualified Resources.

                 iv.     Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be

                         a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only

                         applicable to External Asynchronous Resources that are Supplemental

                         Qualified Resources but not Spin Qualified Resources.

                 v.      Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be

                         specified for the External Asynchronous Resource. The Commercial

                         Pricing Node shall not be an Interface, Load Zone, or Hub.

                 vi.     Hourly Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include an Hourly Ramp Rate,

                         expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. If no Hourly Ramp Rate is

                         submitted, the default ramp rate specified during the asset registration

                         process will be used and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                         Market Portal.

                 vii.    Hourly Economic Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Economic Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Economic Maximum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                         used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process

                         and can be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 viii.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the




                                                                          Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                  External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     45.0.0


                       Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, an Hourly Regulation

                       Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                       Regulation Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used.

                       The default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                       be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 ix.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the

                       Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, an Hourly Regulation

                       Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                       Regulation Maximum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used.

                       The default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                       be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 x.    Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                       Emergency Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                       Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                       used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process

                       and can be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xi.   Hourly Economic Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                       Economic Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                       Economic Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used.

                       The default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                       be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 xii.    Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Emergency Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                         used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process

                         and can be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xiii.   Availability Status. An Offer shall include an Availability Status to

                         indicate if the External Asynchronous Resource is available for

                         participation in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                         during the Hour. If the Availability Status is set to Unavailable, then the

                         External Asynchronous Resource will be unavailable to provide Energy

                         and Operating Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                         Market during the Hour. If the Availability Status is set to Available, then

                         the External Asynchronous Resource will be available to provide Energy

                         and Operating Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                         Market during the Hour.

                 xiv.    Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an

                         Energy Dispatch Status for Energy. Valid Energy Dispatch Status

                         specifications include: Economic and Self-Schedule. An Economic

                         Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                         authorized to economically clear Energy on the Resource for the Hour. A

                         Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant

                         is Self-Scheduling Energy on the Resource for the Hour.




                                                                          Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                  External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     45.0.0


                 xv.    Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating

                        Reserve. Valid Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status specifications

                        include: Economic, Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating.

                        An Economic Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Regulating

                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-

                        Scheduling Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not

                        Qualified Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                        is not qualified to provide Regulating Reserve for an Hour. A Not

                        Participating Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market

                        Participant will not provide Regulating Reserve on a Resource that is

                        otherwise qualified to provide Regulating Reserve. The Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are registered as

                        Regulation Qualified Resources.

                 xvi.   Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                        of a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid

                        Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic,

                        Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An Economic Spinning Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                        economically clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                        39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                   External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                         Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market

                         Participant is self-scheduling Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the

                         Hour. A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that

                         the Resource is not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an Hour.

                         The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not Qualified for a

                         specific Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating Reserve

                         Dispatch Status is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in that Hour.

                         The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are

                         registered as Spin Qualified Resources.

                 xvii.   Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                         specification of a Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for Supplemental

                         Reserve. Valid Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status specifications

                         include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An Economic

                         Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission

                         Provider is authorized to economically clear Supplemental Reserve on the

                         Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                         Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-scheduling

                         Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified

                         Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not

                         qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve for an Hour. The

                         Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are

                         i) registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources and, ii) not Spin




                                                                         Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                  External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     45.0.0


                        Qualified Resources or have been disqualified by the Market Participant as

                        Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.

                 xviii. Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall

                        include specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status

                        which applies to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability for

                        each Hour. Valid Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status

                        specifications include: Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Up

                        and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Up Ramp

                        Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A

                        Not Participating Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Resource shall not be cleared to supply Up Ramp

                        Capability or Down Ramp Capability for an Hour. The Up and Down

                        Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that have

                        offered an Energy Dispatch Status of Economic for the Hour.

                 xix.   On-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for each

                        Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                        Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                        economically clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A




                                                                       Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                        39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                   External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                        Not Participating Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for an Hour.

          c.     Values in Offers. The values in Offers representing the non-price information

                 identified in Section 39.2.5B.b shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities

                 and characteristics of the External Asynchronous Resource on which the Offer is

                 based. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the values in Offers representing the non-

                 price information identified in Section 39.2.5B.b shall reflect any operating

                 limitation, such as thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for

                 Outage Operations, provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission

                 Operator to preserve the reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the

                 actual known physical capabilities and characteristics of the External

                 Asynchronous Resource on which the Offer is based.

          d.     Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Cap and

                 Floors. The following Offer price caps and floors will apply to External

                 Asynchronous Resource Offers in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Market:

                 i.     Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh, applied to non-Verified

                        Energy Offers. Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap,

                        submitted before the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                        Reserves Market, but not verified by the Independent Market Monitor

                        until after market clearing, will be used in the determination of Day-Ahead




                                                                         Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5B
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                         Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section

                         39.3.2B of this Tariff.

                 ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy

                         Offers. Verified Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap

                         will be used in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency

                         Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 39.3.2B of this Tariff.

                 iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh

                 iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour;

                 v.      Regulating Reserve Total Cost Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour;

                 vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour.

                 vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour.

                 viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW.




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                   39.2.5C
FERC Electric Tariff                RESERVED
MODULES                                 38.0.0




                       Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


   Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market.

          Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserves, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability and/or online Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market from Electric Storage Resources shall provide the information

   specified in this Section. Electric Storage Resource Offers shall be submitted in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for registered Electric Storage Resources. Electric

   Storage Resource Offers will remain in effect for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market until specifically superseded by subsequent Electric Storage Resource Offers. Each

   Market Participant may only submit a single Electric Storage Resource Offer for each individual

   Resource.

          a.     Eligibility to Discharge and/or Charge.

                 Electric Storage Resources may Discharge (sell) or Charge (purchase) Energy in

                 the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission

                 Provider has certified the Resource is capable of responding to five (5) minute

                 Dispatch Targets for Energy and has the appropriate telemetry installed as set

                 forth in the Business Practices Manuals. An Electric Storage Resource may not (i)

                 offer to Charge and/or Discharge Energy, (ii) offer and/or supply Operating

                 Reserve, (iii) offer and/or supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability,

                 or (iv) online Short-Term Reserve unless such Resource has been included in the

                 Network Model. An Electric Storage Resource can supply Regulating Reserve,

                 Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                 Capability and/or online Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has certified that the

                 Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, Spin Qualified Resource,

                 Supplemental Qualified Resource, Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified

                 Resource, and/or Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource, respectively. Market

                 Participants that offer to transact Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve,

                 Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and online

                 Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 shall provide the Offer information specified below.

          b.     Required Electric Storage Resource Offer Components.

                 Market Participants that submit Electric Storage Resource Offers shall include a

                 Charge Energy Offer Curve, a Regulating Capacity Offer and a Regulating

                 Mileage Offer (if a Regulation Qualified Resource), a Spinning Reserve Offer (if

                 a Spin Qualified Resource), an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a

                 Supplemental Qualified Resource but not a Spin Qualified Resource), an Off-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Quick-Start Resource), a Start-Up Offer, a No-

                 Load Offer, an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and an

                 online Short-Term Reserve Offer. Market Participants can provide Electric

                 Storage Resource Offers for the full energy storage capabilities of their Resource

                 pursuant to the requirements outlined in Section 39.2.1B. Market Participants

                 may submit Electric Storage Resource Offers to the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market up to seven (7) Days prior to the Operating Day, and




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                 may modify these Electric Storage Resource Offers up until the time the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market closes, as specified in Section

                 39.1.1. Any limits on the Electric Storage Resource Offer covering the full energy

                 storage capability of the Resource must be consistent with Module D. A single

                 Electric Storage Resource Offer may be submitted in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market for each Hour of the Operating Day for which the

                 Market Participant is willing to sell Operating Reserve or online Short-Term

                 Reserve and/or purchase Energy to Charge and/or Discharge to sell Energy from a

                 given Resource. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a Day-Ahead Energy

                 and Operating Reserve Market Electric Storage Resource Offer for each

                 Resource. These Offers are standing Offers and are maintained for the Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market independent of the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market. These Offers may be updated prior to the close of the

                 Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. Electric Storage Resource

                 Offer components are as follows:

                 i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve to either Charge and/or

                        Discharge shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MWh and shall consist of

                        either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to ten (10)

                        segments, shall be monotonically increasing, and shall cover the full

                        operating including Emergency range as applicable to the Commitment

                        Status of the Electric Storage Resource.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                 ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. The Regulating

                        Capacity Offer shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer

                        curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is

                        only applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources expressed for each

                        Hour in $/MW/Hour. The Regulating Mileage Offer shall be a single value

                        expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to Regulation

                        Qualified Resources. If the Regulating Capacity Offer is negative, then the

                        Regulating Mileage Offer must be $0/MW.

                 iii.   Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be expressed

                        for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a stepped or a

                        piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments and shall be

                        monotonically increasing and is only applicable to Spin Qualified

                        Resources.

                 iv.    On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall

                        consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three

                        (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable to

                        Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not Spin Qualified Resources.

                 v.     Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW and shall consist

                        of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3)

                        segments, shall be monotonically increasing to Discharge and is only




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                         applicable to Resources that are Quick-Start Resources and have

                         Commitment Status as Available.

                 vi.     Start-up Offer. The Start-Up Offer shall be expressed for each Day in

                         $/start. A separate Start-Up Offer shall be submitted for hot, intermediate,

                         and cold Start-Up conditions.

                 vii.    No-Load Offer. The No-Load Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                         $/Hour.

                 viii.   Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be specified

                         for the Electric Storage Resource at the time the asset is registered. The

                         Commercial Pricing Node type shall not be a Load Zone, Interface, or

                         Hub.

                 ix.     Hourly Charge Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include an Hourly Charge

                         Ramp Rate, expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. If no Hourly Charge

                         Ramp Rate is submitted, the default Charge Ramp Rate will be used. The

                         default Charge Ramp Rate is specified during the asset registration process

                         and can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. A

                         single Hourly Charge Ramp Rate value will be used for an Electric

                         Storage Resource to ramp up or down for Energy and for regulating up or

                         down between the corresponding Hourly Economic Maximum Charge

                         Limit and zero (0).

                 x.      Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include an Hourly Discharge

                         Ramp Rate, expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. If no Hourly




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                        39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                         Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       36.0.0


                       Discharge Ramp Rate is submitted, the default Hourly Discharge Ramp

                       Rate will be used. The default Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate is specified

                       during the asset registration process and can be updated by a Market

                       Participant from the Market Portal. A single Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate

                       value will be used for an Electric Storage Resource to ramp up or down

                       for Energy and for regulating up or down between the corresponding

                       Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit and zero (0). When the

                       Commitment Status is Continuous, the Ramp Rate value would be

                       determined based on which side of zero (0) the Resource is getting

                       dispatched. If the Electric Storage Resource is being dispatched between

                       zero (0) and the corresponding Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge

                       Limit then the Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate is used. Conversely, if the

                       Electric Storage Resource is being dispatched between zero (0) and the

                       corresponding Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit then the Charge

                       Ramp Rate is used for an Electric Storage Resource to ramp up or down

                       for Energy and for regulating up or down.

                 xi.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit if the Resource is a Regulation

                       Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                       Regulation Minimum Charge Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                       used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process

                       and can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. The




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit shall be greater than or equal

                        to Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit, and shall be less than or

                        equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit. This limit will be

                        used as the minimum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                        Charge, Emergency Charge or Continuous for Electric Storage Resources

                        qualified and committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is

                        Discharge or Emergency Discharge, this will not be used.

                 xii.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit if the Resource is a

                        Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                        Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit is submitted, the default limit

                        will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration

                        process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market

                        Portal. The Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit shall be less than

                        or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit, shall be less

                        than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit, and shall

                        be greater than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit.

                        This limit will be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when

                        Commitment Status is Charge or Emergency Charge for ESRs qualified

                        and committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Available,

                        Discharge, Emergency Discharge or Continuous, this limit will not be

                        used.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


                 xiii.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit if the Resource is a

                         Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit is submitted, the default

                         limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                         registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                         Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit shall be

                         greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit,

                         and shall be less than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum

                         Discharge Limit. This limit will be used as the minimum MW dispatch

                         limit when the Commitment Status is Available, Discharge or Emergency

                         Discharge for Electric Storage Resources qualified and committed for

                         Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Charge, Emergency Charge

                         or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xiv.    Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit if the Resource is a

                         Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit is submitted, the default

                         limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                         registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                         Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit shall be

                         less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit,




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                         shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum

                         Discharge Limit, and shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly

                         Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit. This limit will be used as the

                         maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Available,

                         Discharge, Emergency Discharge or Continuous for ESRs qualified and

                         committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Charge or

                         Emergency Charge, this limit will not be used.

                 xv.     Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Maximum Energy Storage Level, expressed for each Hour in MWh. If no

                         Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level is submitted, the default value

                         specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                 xvi.    Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Minimum Energy Storage Level, expressed for each Hour in MWh. If no

                         Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Level is submitted, the default value

                         specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                 xvii.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall

                         include an Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy Storage Level, expressed

                         for each Hour in MWh. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy

                         Storage Level is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                         registration process will be used.

                 xviii. Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall

                         include an Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Storage Level, expressed




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                        for each Hour in MWh. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy

                        Storage Level is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                        registration process will be used.

                 xix.   Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW. If no Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                        default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                        Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limits shall be less than or equal to

                        zero (0). This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic

                        Minimum Charge Limit. This limit may be used when the Commitment

                        Status is Charge or Emergency Charge as the maximum MW dispatch

                        limit. When the Commitment Status is Available, Discharge, Emergency

                        Discharge or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xx.    Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a

                        Resource from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                        such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR,

                        unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or

                        other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Economic Maximum

                        Discharge Limit is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                        registration process will be used. This value shall be greater than or equal




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                         to the Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit. This limit may be

                         used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                         Available, Discharge, Emergency Discharge or Continuous. When the

                         Commitment Status is Charge or Emergency Charge, this limit will not be

                         used.

                 xxi.    Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                         default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                         This value shall be less than or equal to zero (0). This limit may be used as

                         the minimum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Charge,

                         Emergency Charge or Continuous. When the Commitment Status is

                         Available, Discharge or Emergency Discharge, this limit will not be used.

                 xxii.   Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit is submitted, the

                         default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                         Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limits shall be greater than or

                         equal to zero (0). This limit may be used when the Commitment Status is

                         Discharge, Available or Emergency Discharge as minimum MW dispatch

                         limit. When the Commitment Status is Charge, Emergency Charge or

                         Continuous, this limit will not be used.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                            39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                             Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


                 xxiii. Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                       MW. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                       default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                       Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limits shall be less than or equal to

                       zero (0). This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic

                       Maximum Charge Limit. This limit may be used as the maximum MW

                       dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Emergency Charge or

                       Charge under Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment

                       Status is Available, Discharge, Emergency Discharge or Continuous, the

                       limit will not be used.

                 xxiv. Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour

                       in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a

                       Resource from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                       such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR,

                       unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or

                       other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum

                       Discharge Limit is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                       registration process will be used. This value shall be greater than or equal

                       to the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit. This limit may be

                       used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                             39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                              Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                            36.0.0


                        Emergency Discharge, Discharge, Available or Continuous under

                        Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment Status is Charge

                        or Emergency Charge, this limit will not be used.

                 xxv.   Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                        default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                        This value shall be less than or equal to zero (0). This limit may be used

                        when the Commitment Status is Emergency Charge, Charge or

                        Continuous as the minimum MW dispatch limit under Emergency

                        operating conditions. When the Commitment Status is Discharge,

                        Emergency Discharge or Available, this limit will not be used.

                 xxvi. Hourly Emergency Minimum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Emergency Minimum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Discharge Limit is

                        submitted, the default value specified during the asset registration process

                        will be used. This value shall be greater than or equal to zero (0). This

                        limit may be used when the Commitment Status is Emergency Discharge,

                        Discharge, or Available as minimum MW dispatch limit. When the

                        Commitment Status is Charge, Emergency Charge or Continuous, this

                        limit will not be used.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                 xxvii. Minimum Discharge Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Discharge

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxviii. Maximum Discharge Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Discharge

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxix. Minimum Down Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Down Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxx.   Minimum Charge Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Charge Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxxi. Maximum Charge Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Charge

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                        xxxii. Commitment Status. Because ESRs manage their State of Charge,

                        and are required to provide their Commitment Status for each market

                        interval as described herein, the Transmission Provider’s Security

                        Constrained Unit Commitment engine does not make commitments of

                        ESRs. An Offer shall include specification of a Commitment Status for

                        each Hour. Valid Commitment Status specifications include: Charge,

                        Discharge, Continuous, Emergency Charge, Emergency Discharge,

                        Available, Outage and Not Participating. An Available Commitment

                        Status indicates the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the

                        Resource on an economic basis for the Hour using Offer parameters

                        associated with the Commitment Status of Discharge. A Charge,

                        Discharge, or Continuous Commitment Status indicates that the Market




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        Participant is self-committing the Resource for the Hour. An Emergency

                        Charge or Emergency Discharge Commitment Status indicates that the

                        Resource is an AME Resource and that the Transmission Provider is

                        authorized to commit the Resource only under an Emergency condition for

                        the Hour. The Emergency Charge or Emergency Discharge Commitment

                        Status will not be available to any Resource unless it has satisfied the

                        conditions set forth in Section 39.2.5.b.xxvi. An Outage Commitment

                        Status indicates the Resource is not available for commitment during the

                        Hour due to a planned or forced outage. A Not Participating Commitment

                        Status indicates the Market Participant will not operate a Resource that is

                        otherwise available. The Not Participating Commitment Status will be

                        available to an Electric Storage Resource that has all or a portion of its

                        capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used consistent

                        with Module E-1 obligations.

                 xxxiii. Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an Energy

                        Dispatch Status for Energy for each Hour. Valid Energy Dispatch Status

                        specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule, and Not Participating.

                        An Economic Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission

                        Provider is authorized to economically clear Energy on the Resource for

                        the Hour. A Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Energy on the Resource for the

                        Hour and will follow the Self-Scheduling Rules defined in section 39.1.2.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                        The Not Participating Energy Dispatch Status will be available to an

                        Electric Storage Resource in Continuous Commitment Status and that has

                        all or a portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must

                        be used consistent with Module E-1 obligations. The Energy Dispatch

                        Status only applies to Resources that are committed for the Hour.

                 xxxiv. Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                        of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating Reserve for each

                        Hour. Valid Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                        Economic, Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An

                        Economic Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Regulating

                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-

                        Scheduling Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not

                        Qualified Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                        is not qualified to provide Regulating Reserve for an Hour. A Not

                        Participating Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market

                        Participant will not provide Regulating Reserve on a Resource that is

                        otherwise qualified to provide Regulating Reserve. The Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed

                        for the Hour and ii) registered as Regulation Qualified Resources. The

                        Resource cleared or Self-Scheduled for Regulation will not impact the




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                        Energy Storage Level. However, there should be sufficient Energy Storage

                        Level to clear Regulating Reserves or honor Self-Scheduled Regulation

                        for the Hour.

                 xxxv. Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of

                        a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve for each Hour.

                        Valid Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                        Economic, Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An Economic Spinning

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                        authorized to economically clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the

                        Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that

                        the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Spinning Reserve on the

                        Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve

                        for an Hour. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not

                        Qualified for a specific Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in

                        that Hour. The Resource cleared or Self-Scheduled for Spinning Reserve

                        will not impact the Energy Storage Level. However, there should be

                        sufficient Energy Storage Level to clear Spinning Reserves or honor Self-

                        Scheduled Spinning Reserves for the Hour.

                        For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                        Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        section 39.2.5D.b.xxxii of the Tariff in order to not participate in

                        providing Spinning Reserve. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status only

                        applies to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) registered

                        as Spin Qualified Resources.

                 xxxvi. On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve for each Hour. Valid On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule

                        and Not Qualified. An Economic On-Line Supplemental Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                        economically clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if

                        the Resource is committed. A Self-Schedule On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-

                        Scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the

                        Resource is committed. A Not Qualified On-Line Supplemental Reserve

                        Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide

                        Supplemental Reserve for an Hour as a committed Resource. The

                        Resource cleared or Self-Scheduled for Supplemental Reserve will not

                        impact the Energy Storage Level. However, there should be sufficient

                        Energy Storage Level to clear Supplemental Reserves or honor Self-

                        Scheduled Supplemental Reserves for the Hour.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                        Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to

                        section 39.2.5D.b.xxxii of the Tariff in order to not participate in

                        providing On-Line Supplemental Reserve. The On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed

                        for the Hour, ii) registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources and, iii)

                        not registered as Spin Qualified Resources or have been disqualified by

                        the Market Participant as Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.

                 xxxvii. Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve for each Hour. Valid Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Emergency,

                        Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Off-

                        Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-Line

                        Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour when the Resource’s

                        Commitment Status is Available.

                        An Emergency Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-

                        Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour when the

                        Resource’s Commitment Status is Available and all available Resources

                        with Economic or Available Commitment Status have been committed. A




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        Self-Schedule Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Off-Line

                        Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not

                        qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve for an Hour.

                        A Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates the Market Participant will not provide Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve on a Resource that has a Commitment Status of Available and

                        that is otherwise qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve.

                        The Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status will

                        be available to an Electric Storage Resource that has all or a portion of its

                        capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used consistent

                        with Module E-1 obligations. The Off-Line Supplemental Reserve

                        Dispatch Status only applies to Resources when their Commitment Status

                        is Available for the Hour and they are registered as Quick-Start Resources.

                 xxxviii. Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status which

                        applies to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability for each

                        Hour. Valid Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status specifications

                        include: Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down

                        Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider

                        is authorized to economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or Down




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                        Ramp Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Up

                        and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                        shall not be cleared to supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp

                        Capability for an Hour.

                        The Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies to

                        Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) have offered an

                        Energy Dispatch Status of Economic for the Hour.

                 xxxiv. Hourly Electric Storage Resource Efficiency Factor. An Offer shall

                        include specification of an Hourly Electric Storage Resource Efficiency

                        Factor for each Hour, expressed as a percentage. If no Hourly Electric

                        Storage Resource Efficiency Factor is submitted, the default value

                        specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                 xxxv. Initial Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall include specification of an

                        Initial Energy Storage Level expressed in MWh for each Day.

                 xxxvi. On-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status which

                        applies to on-line Resources for each Hour. Valid on-line Short-Term

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and Not

                        Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Short-

                        Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating on-line




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                            39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                             Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


                           Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall not

                           be cleared to supply on-line Short-Term Reserve for an Hour.

          c.     Values in Offers.

                 The values in Offers representing the non-price information identified in Section

                 39.2.5D.b shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities and characteristics

                 of the Electric Storage Resource on which the Offer is based. Notwithstanding

                 the foregoing, the values in Offers representing the non-price information

                 identified in Section 39.2.5D.b shall reflect any operating limitation, such as

                 thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations,

                 provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

                 reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual known physical

                 capabilities and characteristics of the Electric Storage Resource on which the

                 Offer is based.

          d.     Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and

                 Floors.

                 The following Offer Price Caps will apply to Electric Storage Resources in the

                 Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

                           i.      Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh; applied to non-

                                   Verified Energy Offers. Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer

                                   Soft Price Cap, submitted before the close of the Day-Ahead

                                   Energy and Operating Reserves Market, but not verified by the

                                   Independent Market Monitor until after market clearing, will be




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5D
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                               used in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency

                               Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 39.3.2B of this

                               Tariff.

                       ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified

                               Energy Offers and Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy

                               Offers. Verified Energy Offers, and the components of Verified

                               Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer

                               Hard Price Cap will be used in the determination of Day-Ahead

                               Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section

                               39.3.2B of this Tariff.

                       iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh

                       iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour

                       v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor $0/MW/Hour

                       vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

                       vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                       viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market.

   Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserves, Up Ramp Capability,

   Down Ramp Capability, and/or On-Line Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market from Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources shall provide the

   information specified in this Section. Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers shall be

   submitted in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for registered

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources. Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers will

   remain in effect for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market until specifically

   superseded by subsequent Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers. Each Market

   Participant may only submit a single Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer for each

   individual Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.

          a.     Eligibility to Inject and/or Withdraw

                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources may inject (sell) or withdraw

                 (purchase) Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the

                 Transmission Provider has certified the Resource is capable of responding to five

                 (5) minute Dispatch Targets for Energy and has the appropriate telemetry

                 installed as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals. A Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resource may not (i) offer to withdraw and/or inject Energy, (ii) offer

                 and/or supply Operating Reserve, or (iii) offer and/or supply On-Line Short-Term

                 Reserve, Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability unless such Resource

                 has been included in the Network Model. All Energy withdrawn must be stored




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                 and later reinjected and may not be used to serve retail load. A Distributed

                 Energy Aggregated Resource can supply Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve,

                 Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or

                 Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                 the Transmission Provider has certified that the Resource is a Regulation

                 Qualified Resource, Spin Qualified Resource, Supplemental Qualified Resource,

                 Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified Resource, and/or Short-Term Reserve

                 Qualified Resource, respectively. Market Participants that offer to transact

                 Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp

                 Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall provide the Offer information

                 specified below.

          b.     Required Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Components

                 Market Participants that submit Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers

                 shall include an Energy Offer, a Regulating Capacity Offer and a Regulating

                 Mileage Offer (if a Regulation Qualified Resource), a Spinning Reserve Offer (if

                 a Spin Qualified Resource), an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a

                 Supplemental Qualified Resource but not a Spin Qualified Resource), an Off-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Quick-Start Resource), a Start-Up Offer, a No-

                 Load Offer, an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status, and an online

                 Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. Market Participants can provide Distributed

                 Energy Aggregated Resource Offers for the full capability of their Resource




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                 pursuant to the requirements outlined in Section 39.2.1B; and may indicate, as

                 part of the Offer, that the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, can be cleared

                 only during a surplus or shortage Emergency in either Emergency Withdraw or

                 Emergency Inject Commitment Status, respectively. Market Participants may

                 submit Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers to the Day-Ahead Energy

                 and Operating Reserve Market up to seven (7) Days prior to the Operating Day,

                 and may modify these Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers up until

                 the time the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market closes, as

                 specified in Section 39.1.1. Any limits on the Offer over the full quantity (MW)

                 range of the Operable Capacity must be consistent with Module D. A single

                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer may be submitted in the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for each Hour of the Operating Day

                 from a given Resource. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource

                 Offer for each Resource. These Offers are standing Offers and are maintained for

                 the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market independent of the Real-

                 Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. These Offers may be updated prior

                 to the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. Distributed

                 Energy Aggregated Resource Offer components are as follows:

                        i.      Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve to either withdraw

                                and/or inject shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in $/MWh

                                and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              curve of up to ten (10) segments, shall be monotonically

                              increasing, and shall cover the full operating range, including

                              Emergency range, as applicable to the Commitment Status of the

                              Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.

                       ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. The

                              Regulating Capacity Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                              $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to Regulation Qualified

                              Resources. The Regulating Mileage Offer shall be a single value

                              expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to

                              Regulation Qualified Resources. If the Regulating Capacity Offer

                              is negative, then the Regulating Mileage Offer must be $0/MW.

                       iii.   Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be

                              expressed for each Hour as a value in $/MW/Hour and is only

                              applicable to Spin Qualified Resources.

                       iv.    On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The On-Line Supplemental

                              Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in

                              $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to Supplemental Qualified

                              Resources that are not Spin Qualified Resources.

                       v.     Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Off-Line Supplemental

                              Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in

                              $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to Resources that are Quick-

                              Start Resources and have Commitment Status as Available.




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                       vi.     Start-Up Offer. The Start-Up Offer shall be expressed for each Day

                               in $/start. A separate Start-Up Offer shall be submitted for hot,

                               intermediate, and cold Start-Up conditions.

                       vii.    No-Load Offer. The No-Load Offer shall be expressed for each

                               Hour in $/Hour.

                       viii.   Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be

                               specified for the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource at the

                               time the asset is registered. The Commercial Pricing Node type

                               shall not be a Load Zone, Interface, or Hub.

                       ix.     Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include a Bi-

                               Directional Ramp Rate Curve representing the Hourly Withdrawal

                               Ramp Rate, expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. This Hourly

                               Bi-Directional Ramp Rate value will be used in the Day-Ahead

                               Energy and Operating Reserve Market while ramping up or down

                               with an output below zero (0). If no Hourly Withdrawal Ramp

                               Rate is submitted, the default Withdrawal Ramp Rate will be used.

                               The default Withdrawal Ramp Rate is specified during the asset

                               registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant

                               from the Market Portal.

                       x.      Hourly Injection Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include a Bi-

                               Directional Ramp Rate Curve representing the Hourly Injection

                               Ramp Rate, expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. This Hourly




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                    39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff              Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                  32.0.0


                             Bi-Directional Ramp Rate value will be used in the Day-Ahead

                             Energy and Operating Reserve Market while ramping up or down

                             with an output above zero (0). If no Hourly Injection Ramp Rate is

                             submitted, the default Hourly Injection Ramp Rate will be used.

                             The default Hourly Injection Ramp Rate is specified during the

                             asset registration process and can be updated by a Market

                             Participant from the Market Portal.

                             When the Commitment Status is Continuous, the Ramp Rate value

                             would be determined based on which side of zero (0) the Resource

                             is getting dispatched. If the Distributed Energy Aggregated

                             Resource is being dispatched between zero (0) and the

                             corresponding Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit then

                             the Hourly Injection Ramp Rate is used. Conversely, if the

                             Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is being dispatched

                             between zero (0) and the corresponding Hourly Emergency

                             Minimum Withdrawal Limit then the Withdrawal Ramp Rate is

                             used for a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.

                       xi.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall

                             include an Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit if the

                             Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each

                             Hour in MW. If no Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal

                             Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              is specified during the asset registration process and can be

                              updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. The

                              Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit shall be greater

                              than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal

                              Limit, and shall be less than or equal to the Hourly Regulation

                              Maximum Withdrawal Limit. This limit will be used as the

                              minimum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                              Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw or Continuous for Distributed

                              Energy Aggregated Resources qualified and committed for

                              Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Inject or Emergency

                              Inject, this limit will not be used.

                       xii.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit if the

                              Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each

                              Hour in MW. If no Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal

                              Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit

                              is specified during the asset registration process and can be

                              updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. The

                              Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit shall be less than

                              or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit,

                              shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum

                              Withdrawal Limit, and shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                               Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit. This limit will be used as

                               the maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                               Withdraw, or Emergency Withdrawal for Distributed Energy

                               Aggregated Resources qualified and committed for Regulation.

                               When the Commitment Status is Available, Inject, Emergency

                               Inject or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                       xiii.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit. An Offer shall

                               include an Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit if the

                               Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each

                               Hour in MW. If no Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit is

                               submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is

                               specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                               by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. The Hourly

                               Regulation Minimum Injection Limit shall be greater than or equal

                               to the Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit, and shall be

                               less than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection

                               Limit. This limit will be used as the minimum MW dispatch limit

                               when the Commitment Status is Inject, Emergency Inject, or

                               Available for Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources qualified

                               and committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is

                               Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw or Continuous, this limit will not

                               be used.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                       xiv.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit if the

                              Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each

                              Hour in MW. If no Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit

                              is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is

                              specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                              by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. The Hourly

                              Regulation Maximum Injection Limit, shall be less than or equal to

                              the Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit, and shall be

                              greater than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection

                              Limit. This limit will be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit

                              when the Commitment Status is Inject, Emergency Inject,

                              Continuous or Available for Distributed Energy Aggregated

                              Resources qualified and committed for Regulation. When the

                              Commitment Status is Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw, this

                              limit will not be used.

                       xv.    Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit,

                              expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Economic

                              Maximum Withdrawal Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                              used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration

                              process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              Market Portal. Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limits

                              shall be less than or equal to zero. This value shall be greater than

                              or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit.

                              This limit may be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when

                              the Commitment Status is Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw

                              under normal operating conditions. When the Commitment Status

                              is Available, Inject, Emergency Inject or Continuous, this limit will

                              not be used.

                       xvi.   Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit, expressed

                              for each Hour in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a

                              portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the Day-Ahead Energy

                              and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is designated as a

                              Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR, unless such portion is

                              unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other physical

                              operating restrictions. If no Hourly Economic Maximum Injection

                              Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit

                              is specified during the asset registration process and can be

                              updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. This value

                              shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum

                              Injection Limit. This limit may be used as the maximum MW

                              dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Inject, Emergency




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                               Inject, Available or Continuous. When the Commitment Status is

                               Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw, this limit will not be used.

                       xvii.   Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall

                               include an Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit,

                               expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum

                               Withdrawal Limit is submitted, the default value will be used. The

                               default limit is specified during the asset registration process and

                               can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                               This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Emergency

                               Minimum Withdrawal Limit. This Limit may be used when the

                               Commitment Status is Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw or

                               Continuous as minimum MW dispatch limit. When the

                               Commitment Status is Available, Inject or Emergency Inject, this

                               limit will not be used.

                       xviii. Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit. An Offer shall

                               include an Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit, expressed

                               for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Injection

                               Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit

                               is specified during the asset registration process and can be

                               updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. Hourly

                               Economic Minimum Injection Limits shall be greater than or equal

                               to zero (0). This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              Emergency Minimum Injection Limit. This Limit may be used

                              when the Commitment Status is Inject, Emergency Inject or

                              Available as minimum MW dispatch limit. When the Commitment

                              Status is Continuous, Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw, this limit

                              will not be used.

                       xix.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limit,

                              expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Emergency

                              Maximum Withdrawal Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                              used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration

                              process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                              Market Portal. Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limits

                              shall be less than or equal to zero. This value shall be greater than

                              or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit.

                              This limit may be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when

                              the Commitment Status is Emergency Withdraw or Withdraw

                              under Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment

                              Status is Continuous, Available, Inject or Emergency Inject, the

                              Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limit will not be used.

                       xx.    Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit,

                              expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall not be used to




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              withhold a portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the Day-

                              Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is

                              designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR, unless such

                              portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other

                              physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum

                              Injection Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The

                              default limit is specified during the asset registration process and

                              can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                              This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic

                              Maximum Injection Limit. This limit may be used as the maximum

                              MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Emergency

                              Inject, Inject, Available or Continuous under Emergency operating

                              conditions. When the Commitment Status is Withdraw or

                              Emergency Withdraw, this limit will not be used.

                       xxi.   Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall

                              include an Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit,

                              expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Emergency

                              Minimum Withdrawal Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                              used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration

                              process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                              Market Portal. Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limits may

                              be used when the Commitment Status is Emergency Withdraw,




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                               Withdraw or Continuous as minimum MW dispatch limit under

                               Emergency operating conditions. When Commitment Status is

                               Available, Inject, or Emergency Inject, this limit will not be used.

                       xxii.   Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limit. An Offer shall

                               include an Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limit, expressed

                               for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy

                               Injection Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The

                               default limit is specified during the asset registration process and

                               can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                               This value shall be greater than or equal to zero (0). This Limit

                               may be used when the Commitment Status is Emergency Inject,

                               Inject, or Available as minimum MW dispatch limit under

                               Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment Status is

                               Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw or Continuous, this limit will not

                               be used.

                       xxiii. Minimum Injection Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum

                               Injection Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                       xxiv. Maximum Injection Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                               Injection Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                       xxv.    Minimum Down Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Down

                               Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                       xxvi. Start-Up Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate, and

                              cold Start-Up Time, each of which is expressed for each Hour in

                              Hours and/or Minutes.

                       xxvii. Hot-to-Intermediate Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-

                              Intermediate Time, expressed for each Day in Hours and/or

                              minutes.

                       xxviii. Hot-to-Cold Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Cold Time,

                              expressed for each Day in Hours and/or minutes

                       xxix. Start-Up Notification Times. An Offer shall include a hot,

                              intermediate, and cold Start-Up Notification Time, each of which

                              is expressed for each Hour in Hours and/or Minutes.

                       xxx.   Maximum Off-Line Response Limit. An Offer shall include a

                              Maximum Off-Line Response Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                              MW. This requirement applies to Quick-Start Resources only. If

                              no hourly Maximum Off-Line Response Limit is submitted, the

                              default Maximum Off-Line Response Limit will be used. The

                              default limit is specified during the asset registration process and

                              can be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                       xxxi. Maximum Daily Energy. An Offer shall include specification of a

                              Maximum Daily Energy amount, if applicable, expressed for each

                              Day in MWh.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                       xxxii. Minimum Withdraw Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum

                              Withdraw Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                       xxxiii. Maximum Withdraw Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                              Withdraw Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                       xxxiv. Commitment Status. An Offer shall include specification of a

                              Commitment Status for each Hour. Valid Commitment Status

                              specifications include: Withdraw, Inject, Continuous, Emergency

                              Withdraw, Emergency Inject, Available, Outage and Not

                              Participating. An Available Commitment Status indicates the

                              Transmission Provider is authorized to clear the Market

                              Participant’s Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer on an

                              economic basis for the Hour using Offer parameters associated

                              with the Commitment Status of Inject. A Withdraw, Inject, or

                              Continuous Commitment Status indicates the Market Participant is

                              self-committing the Resource for the Hour. An Inject or

                              Continuous Commitment status are the only Commitment Status to

                              be used to meet the Must Offer requirements of Module E-1. An

                              Emergency Withdraw or Emergency Inject Commitment Status

                              indicates the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the

                              Resource only under an Emergency condition, for the Hour. An

                              Outage Commitment Status indicates the Resource is not available

                              for commitment during the Hour due to a planned or forced outage.




                                                                         Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              A Not Participating Commitment Status indicates the Market

                              Participant will not operate a Resource that is otherwise available.

                              The Not Participating Commitment Status will be available to a

                              Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource that has all or a portion

                              of its capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used

                              consistent with Module E-1 obligations.

                       xxxv. Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an

                              Energy Dispatch Status for Energy for each Hour. Valid Energy

                              Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule,

                              and Not Participating. An Economic Energy Dispatch Status

                              indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                              economically clear Energy on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-

                              Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Market

                              Participant is Self-Scheduling Energy on the Resource for the Hour

                              and will follow the Self-Scheduling Rules defined in section

                              39.1.2. The Not Participating Energy Dispatch Status will be

                              available to a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource in

                              Continuous Commitment Status and that has all or a portion of its

                              capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used

                              consistent with Module E-1 obligations. The Energy Dispatch

                              Status only applies to Resources that are committed for the Hour.




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                       xxxvi. Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                              specification of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for

                              Regulating Reserve for each Hour. Valid Regulating Reserve

                              Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule,

                              Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Regulating

                              Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                              authorized to economically clear Regulating Reserve on the

                              Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Regulating Reserve

                              Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-

                              Scheduling Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A

                              Not Qualified Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that

                              the Resource is not qualified to provide Regulating Reserve for an

                              Hour. A Not Participating Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status

                              indicates the Market Participant will not provide Regulating

                              Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide

                              Regulating Reserve. The Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status only

                              applies to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour with a

                              Commitment Status of Inject, Withdraw or Continuous and ii)

                              registered as Regulation Qualified Resources.

                       xxxvii. Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                              specification of a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning

                              Reserve for each Hour. Valid Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                              specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not

                              Qualified. An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                              indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                              economically clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the

                              Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                              indicates that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Spinning

                              Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Spinning

                              Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified

                              to provide Spinning Reserve for an Hour. The Spinning Reserve

                              Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not Qualified for a specific

                              Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating Reserve

                              Dispatch Status is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in

                              that Hour.

                              For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                              Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status

                              pursuant to section 39.2.5E.b.xxxii of the Tariff in order to not

                              participate in providing Spinning Reserve. The Spinning Reserve

                              Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed for

                              the Hour with a Commitment Status of Inject, Withdraw or

                              Continuous and ii) registered as Spin Qualified Resources.

                       xxxviii.      On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer

                              shall include specification of an On-Line Supplemental Reserve




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                              39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff        Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                            32.0.0


                       Dispatch Status for Supplemental Reserve for each Hour. Valid

                       On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status specifications

                       include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An

                       Economic On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                       indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                       economically clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the

                       Hour if the Resource is committed. A Self-Schedule On-Line

                       Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market

                       Participant is Self-Scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the

                       Resource for the Hour if the Resource is committed. A Not

                       Qualified On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                       that the Resource is not qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve

                       for an Hour as a committed Resource.

                       For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                       Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status

                       pursuant to section 39.2.5E.b.xxxii of the Tariff in order to not

                       participate in providing On-Line Supplemental Reserve. The On-

                       Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to

                       Resources that are i) committed for the Hour, ii) registered as

                       Supplemental Qualified Resources and, iii) not registered as Spin

                       Qualified Resources or have been disqualified by the Market

                       Participant as Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.




                                                                     Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff               Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                   32.0.0


                       xxxix. Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall

                              include specification of an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve

                              Dispatch Status for Supplemental Reserve for each Hour. Valid

                              Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status specifications

                              include: Economic, Emergency, Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and

                              Not Participating. An Economic Off-Line Supplemental Reserve

                              Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                              authorized to economically clear Off-Line Supplemental Reserve

                              on the Resource for the Hour when the Resource’s Commitment

                              Status is Available.

                              An Emergency Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                              indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                              economically clear Off-Line Supplemental Reserve on the

                              Resource for the Hour when the Resource’s Commitment Status is

                              Available and an Emergency condition occurs. A Self-Schedule

                              Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                              Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Off-Line Supplemental

                              Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Off-Line

                              Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                              is not qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve for an

                              Hour.




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                    39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff              Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                  32.0.0


                             A Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                             Status indicates the Market Participant will not provide Off-Line

                             Supplemental Reserve on a Resource that has a Commitment

                             Status of Available and that is otherwise qualified to provide Off-

                             Line Supplemental Reserve. The Not Participating Off-Line

                             Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status will be available to a

                             Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource that has all or a portion

                             of its capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used

                             consistent with Module E-1 obligations. The Off-Line

                             Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Distributed

                             Energy Aggregated Resources when they are uncommitted, their

                             Commitment Status is Available for the Hour, and they are

                             registered as Quick-Start Resources.

                       xl.   Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall

                             include specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability

                             Dispatch Status which applies to both Up Ramp Capability and

                             Down Ramp Capability for each Hour. Valid Up and Down Ramp

                             Capability Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and

                             Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down Ramp Capability

                             Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                             authorized to economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or

                             Down Ramp Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A Not




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                                Participating Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status

                                indicates that the Resource shall not be cleared to supply Up Ramp

                                Capability or Down Ramp Capability for an Hour.

                                The Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies

                                to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) have

                                offered an Energy Dispatch Status of Economic for the Hour.

                        xli.    On-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall

                                include specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch

                                Status for each Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status

                                specifications include: Economic and Not Participating. An

                                Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                                Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Short-

                                Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating

                                Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                                shall not be cleared to supply On-Line Short-Term Reserve for the

                                Hour.

          c.     Values in Offers

                 The values in Offers representing the non-price information identified in Section

                 39.2.5E.b shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities and characteristics

                 of the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource on which the Offer is based,

                 except that the Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit and Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Injection Limit of a Distributed Energy Aggregated




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 Resource may, at the discretion of the Market Participant, be reduced by an

                 amount equal to any Capacity associated with the Resource that is not designated

                 as a Capacity Resource and that is not providing Energy, Operating Reserve, Up

                 Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market.

          d.     Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and

                 Floors

                 The following Offer Price Caps and floors will apply to Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resources in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

                 i.       Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh, applied to non-Verified

                          Energy Offers. Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap,

                          submitted before the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserves Market

                          close, but not verified by the Independent Market Monitor until after

                          market clearing, will be used in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue

                          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 39.3.2B of this

                          Tariff.

                 ii.      Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy

                          Offers. Verified Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap

                          will be used in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency

                          Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 39.3.2B of this Tariff.

                 iii.     Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh.

                 iv.      Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.2.5E
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Day-Ahead
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                 v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor $0/MW/Hour.

                 vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour.

                 vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour.

                 viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW.




                                                                         Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                          39.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                      RESERVED
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             39.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Specifications for Virtual Offers
MODULES                                                                                          35.0.0


   a.     General Virtual Offers Rules. Market Participants that intend to sell Virtual Energy in

   the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall provide the Offer information

   specified in this Section 39.2.7. Market Participants may sell Virtual Energy at any Commercial

   Pricing Node. Virtual Supply Offers shall not be used to supply Operating Reserve.

   b.     Virtual Offer Components. Virtual Offers shall include:

          i.     The Commercial Pricing Node where the Market Participant desires to sell the

                 designated MWh of Energy;

          ii.    Hourly MWh quantities; and

          iii.   Offer price expressed in $/MWh which shall not be greater than $2,000/MWh or

                 less than negative $500/MWh.




                                                                      Effective On: December 1, 2019
MISO                                                                                           39.2.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 External Supply
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   a.     Energy. All Market Participants may Offer to sell Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market through Import Schedules and will be settled at the

          Commercial Pricing Node defined as the Interface or at the External Asynchronous

          Resources Commercial Pricing Node for each Import Schedule.

   b.     Operating Reserve and Short-Term Reserve. All Generation Resources Pseudo-tied to

          the MISO Balancing Authority Area and all External Asynchronous Resources supplying

          Energy, Operating Reserve, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market must maintain firm transmission capacity to the MISO

          Balancing Authority Area in an amount not less than the Emergency Maximum Limit of

          such Resources.




                                                                     Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                     39.2.8A
FERC Electric Tariff                           Energy and Operating Reserve Market Demand Curves
MODULES                                                                                    38.0.0


   A.     General.

          Demand Curves will be utilized in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   to clear Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Market-Wide

   Short-Term Reserve. The methodology for constructing Demand Curves is described in

   Schedule 28.

   B.     Market-Wide Demand Curves.

          A Market-Wide Operating Reserve Demand Curve will be used to price Operating

   Reserve when sufficient Operating Reserves are not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-

   Wide Operating Reserve Requirement. A Market Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve

   Demand Curve will be used to price Regulating and Spinning Reserve when sufficient

   Regulating and Spinning Reserves are not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide

   Regulating and Spinning Reserve Requirement. A Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Demand

   Curve will be used to price Regulating Reserve when sufficient Regulating Reserves are not

   cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement. A Market-

   Wide Up Ramp Capability Demand Curve will be used to price Up Ramp Capability when

   sufficient Up Ramp Capability is not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide Up Ramp

   Capability Requirement. A Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Demand Curve will be used to

   price Down Ramp Capability when sufficient Down Ramp Capability is not cleared to meet the

   corresponding Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement. A Market-Wide Short-Term

   Reserve Demand Curve will be used to price Short-Term Reserve when sufficient Short-Term

   Reserve is not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve

   Requirement.




                                                                      Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                         39.2.8A
FERC Electric Tariff                               Energy and Operating Reserve Market Demand Curves
MODULES                                                                                        38.0.0


   C.        Transmission Constraint Demand Curves (TCDCs)

             TCDCs shall be used to price a transmission constraint during any dispatch interval in

   which the transmission constraint cannot be managed within its binding limit using the Security

   Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) engine.

   D.        Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint Demand Curves

             Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint Demand Curves shall be used to price Sub-

   Regional Power Balance Constraints during any Dispatch Interval in which such constraint(s)

   cannot be managed within its binding limit using the Security Constrained Economic Dispatch

   (SCED) engine.

   E.        Post Reserve Deployment Constraints Demand Curves

             Post Reserve Deployment Constraints Demand Curves shall be used to price Post

   Reserve Deployment Constraints during any Dispatch Interval in which such constraint(s) cannot

   be managed within its binding limit using the Security Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)

   engine.




                                                                          Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                        39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                         Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     63.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall use SCUC, SCED, and SCED-Pricing algorithms to: (i)

   commit Resources; (ii) clear Offers, Bids, Self-Schedules, Interchange Schedules, and Virtual

   Transactions; (iii) establish Day-Ahead Schedules, Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs, and Day-Ahead

   Ex Ante MCPs; and (iv) establish Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs, for

   each Hour of the Operating Day.

   Resource commitments that are made by the FRAC process and that have not been cancelled

   before the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the Operating Day

   shall be included in the market solution using the effective day-ahead Offer for the Operating

   Day. Any such day-ahead Offer that is greater than the as committed FRAC Offer shall be

   subject to mitigation under section 65.3.5 of Module D.

          a.      Determination of Day-Ahead Schedules.

          In the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the Transmission Provider

          shall determine: (i) Energy Schedules for Resources, Load Zones, Interchange Schedules,

          and Virtual Transactions; (ii) Operating Reserve Schedules for Resources; (iii) Up Ramp

          Capability and Down Ramp Capability Schedules for Resources; and (iv) Short-Term

          Reserve schedules for Resources.

          b.      Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs

                  at Elemental Pricing Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs for each Hour and

          Elemental Pricing Node in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market using

          the SCED algorithm. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP at an Elemental Pricing Node in a

          specific Hour is the marginal Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


          Ramp Capability, Short-Term Reserve and, if applicable, Reserve Scarcity costs, Up

          Ramp Capability scarcity costs, Down Ramp Capability scarcity cost, and/or Short-Term

          Reserve scarcity costs to supply Energy to Load at the Elemental Pricing Node during the

          Hour using the SCED algorithm. The Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs will be based upon the

          SCED-Pricing algorithm described in Schedule 29A. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs

          and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs are based on: (i) Generation Offers; (ii) Demand

          Response Resource–Type II Offers; (iii) External Asynchronous Resource Offers; (iv)

          Virtual Supply Offers; (v) Price Sensitive Demand Bids; (vi) Dispatchable Interchange

          Schedules; (vii) Up-to-TUC Interchange Schedules; (viii) Virtual Bids; (ix) Demand

          Curves; (x) Electric Storage Resource Offers; and (xi) Proxy Offers when appropriate as

          specified in Schedule 29A.

                 i.     Calculation of Marginal Congestion Component.

                 For each Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP, the

                 Transmission Provider will calculate the Cost of Congestion at each Elemental

                 Pricing Node as a component of the LMP (the Marginal Congestion Component).

                 The Marginal Congestion Component of a Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP reflects the

                 marginal cost of managing transmission congestion and enforcing Sub-Regional

                 Power Balance Constraints, that will arise from an incremental Energy demand at

                 the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by an incremental Energy injection at the

                 Reference Bus in the SCED algorithm. The Marginal Congestion Component of

                 a Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP reflects the marginal cost of managing transmission

                 congestion and enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, that will arise




                                                                       Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                      39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                       Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                   63.0.0


                 from an incremental Energy demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by

                 an incremental Energy injection at the Reference Bus in the SCED-Pricing

                 algorithm.

                 ii.    Calculation of Marginal Losses Component.

                 For each Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP, the

                 Transmission Provider will calculate the Cost of Losses at each Elemental Pricing

                 Node as a component of the LMP at that Elemental Pricing Node (the Marginal

                 Losses Component). The Marginal Losses Component of any Day-Ahead Ex

                 Ante LMP reflects the marginal cost of serving System Losses that arise from an

                 incremental Energy demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by a loss

                 adjusted Energy injection at the Reference Bus in the SCED algorithm. The

                 Marginal Losses Component of any Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP reflects the

                 marginal cost of serving System Losses that arise from an incremental Energy

                 demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by a loss adjusted Energy

                 injection at the Reference Bus in the SCED-Pricing algorithm.

          c.     Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs

                 at Aggregate Price Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate LMPs for each Hour and Aggregate Price

          Node in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The calculation of LMPs

          for Aggregate Price Nodes will be based on the established normalized weighting factors

          for each Elemental Pricing Node defined in the Aggregate Price Node. The Aggregate

          Price Node LMP is equal to the sum of the products of the LMP at each Elemental




                                                                       Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                        39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                         Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     63.0.0


          Pricing Node and the associated normalized weighting factors for the Elemental Pricing

          Node.

          d.      Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs

                  at Commercial Pricing Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider shall establish relevant LMPs for each Hour and Commercial

          Pricing Node in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The respective

          LMPs for Commercial Pricing Nodes, including the Marginal Congestion Component

          and Marginal Losses Component, shall be set equal to the respective LMP at the

          Elemental Pricing Node or Aggregate Price Node on which the Commercial Pricing Node

          is based.

          e.      Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs

                  at a Resource Commercial Pricing Node.

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the relevant LMP at a Resource Commercial

          Pricing Node as follows:

                  i.     If the Resource has a single injection point and/or withdrawal point as in

                  the case of an Electric Storage Resource, the relevant LMP for the Resource

                  Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective LMP for the

                  Elemental Pricing Node representing the Bus connected to the single injection or

                  withdrawal point of the Resource.

                  ii.    If the Resource has multiple injection points, that may or may not be

                  connected to different Buses, the relevant LMP for the Resource Commercial

                  Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective LMP for the Aggregate




                                                                         Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


                 Price Node representing the Buses connected to each of the injection points of the

                 Resource. The Aggregate Price Node weighing factors are specified by the

                 Market Participant when the asset is registered.

          f.     Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs

                 at a Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the relevant LMP for the Load Zone

          Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

                 i.     If the Load Zone consists of a single Load, the relevant LMP for the Load

                 Zone Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective LMP for

                 the Elemental Pricing Node representing the Bus connected to the single Load.

                 ii.    If the Load Zone consists of multiple Loads, the relevant LMP for the

                 Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective

                 LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Load Zone. The Aggregate

                 Price Node representing the Load Zone is comprised of Elemental Pricing Nodes

                 representing the Buses where the individual Loads that comprise the Load Zone

                 are connected.

                        The weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to the

                 ratio of the Load Zone’s demand at the Elemental Pricing Node to the total

                 demand of the Load Zone as determined by the results of the State Estimator from

                 the average over the twenty-four (24) hours of seven (7) Days prior to the

                 Operating Day.

          g.     Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


                 at a Hub Commercial Pricing Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the relevant LMP for a Hub Commercial

          Pricing Node as follows:

                 i.     If the Hub consists of a single Elemental Pricing Node, the relevant LMP

                 for the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective

                 LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node.

                 ii.    If the Hub consists of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the relevant LMP

                 for the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective

                 LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Hub. The weighting factor

                 for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to a fixed normalized value

                 determined by the Transmission Provider for the Hub, except as provided below

                 for an ARR Zone administered as a Hub Commercial Pricing Node.


                 iii.   Where an ARR Zone is administered as a Hub Commercial Pricing Node

                 consisting of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the relevant LMP for the Hub

                 Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated respective LMP for the

                 Aggregate Price Node representing the Hub. The Aggregate Price Node

                 representing the ARR Zone is comprised of Elemental Pricing Nodes representing

                 the Buses where the individual Loads that comprise the ARR Zone are connected.


                 The weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to the ratio of

                 the ARR Zone’s demand at the Elemental Pricing Node to the total demand of the

                 ARR Zone as determined by the results of the State Estimator solution from the




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


                 average over the twenty-four (24) hours of seven (7) Days prior to the Operating

                 Day.

          h.     Determination of Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs

                 at an Interface Commercial Pricing Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the relevant LMP for an Interface

          Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

                 i.     If the Interface consists of a single Elemental Pricing Node, the relevant

                 LMP for the Interface Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated

                 respective LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node.

                 ii.    If the Interface consists of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the relevant

                 LMP for the Interface Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated

                 respective LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Interface. The

                 weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to a normalized

                 value determined by the Transmission Provider for the Interface.

          i.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Regulating

                 Reserve Market Clearing Prices for Generation Resources, Demand

                 Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources and External

                 Asynchronous Resources

                 On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-

          Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Regulating Reserve for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources for each Hour in the Day-Ahead




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


          Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing

          algorithm, respectively. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Ex Post Regulating Reserve MCP

          for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, , Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide

          Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning

          Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (iii) Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Constraint

          Shadow Price, (iv) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow

          Price, (v) Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource – Type I Regulating and

          Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (vi) beginning November 1, 2011,

          additional marginal cost of managing the transmission congestion, and beginning August

          26, 2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints,

          in order to supply incremental Regulating Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule 29A,

          respectively.

          j.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Spinning

                 Reserve Market Clearing Price for Generation Resources, Demand Response

                 Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources and External Asynchronous

                 Resources

                 On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-

          Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Spinning Reserve for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources for each Hour in the Day-Ahead




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


          Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing

          algorithm, respectively. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs

          for Spinning Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II,

          , Electric Storage Resources and External Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i)

          Market-Wide Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating

          and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (iii) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating

          Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (iv) Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource –

          Type I Regulating and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (v) beginning

          November 1, 2011, additional marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and

          beginning August 26, 2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power

          Balance Constraints, in order to supply incremental Spinning Reserve from the Reference

          Bus to the Reserve Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29

          and Schedule 29A, respectively.

          k.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Spinning

                 Reserve Market Clearing Price for Demand Response Resources – Type I.

          On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-Ahead

          Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Spinning Reserve for Demand

          Response Resources – Type I for each Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market, using the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing algorithm respectively, if

          such Demand Response Resources – Type I are eligible to provide Spinning Reserve as

          determined by Applicable Reliability Standards. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and

          Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Spinning Reserve for Demand Response Resources – Type




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


          I is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii)

          Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (iii)

          beginning November 1, 2011, additional marginal cost of managing transmission

          congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-

          Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order to supply incremental Spinning Reserve

          from the Reference Bus to the Reserve Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set

          forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule 29A, respectively.

          l.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Supplemental

                 Reserve Market Clearing Price for Generation Resources, Demand Response

                 Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous

                 Resources

          On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-Ahead

          Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Supplemental Reserve for Generation

          Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources and

          External Asynchronous Resources for each Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, using the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing algorithm,

          respectively. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for

          Supplemental Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II,

          Electric Storage Resources and External Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i)

          Market-Wide Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Non-DRR1

          Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (iii) beginning November 1, 2011,

          additional marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26,




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                        Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                    63.0.0


          2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in

          order to supply incremental Supplemental Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule 29A,

          respectively.

          m.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Supplemental

                 Reserve Market Clearing Price for Demand Response Resources - Type I

          On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-Ahead

          Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Supplemental Reserve for Demand

          Response Resources - Type I for each Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market, using the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing algorithm, respectively.

          The Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Supplemental Reserve

          for Demand Response Resources - Type I is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating

          Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (ii) beginning November 1, 2011, additional

          marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018,

          additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order

          to supply incremental Supplemental Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule 29A,

          respectively.

          n.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Up Ramp

                 Capability Market Clearing Price

          On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-Ahead

          Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Up Ramp Capability for qualified




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                      39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                       Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                   63.0.0


          Resources for each Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using

          the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing algorithm, respectively. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante

          MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for a Resource for Up Ramp Capability is the

          Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Up Ramp Capability Requirement

          Constraint Shadow Price where the Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Up

          Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint is as set forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule

          29A, respectively.

          o.     Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Down Ramp

          Capability Market Clearing Price

          On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-Ahead

          Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Down Ramp Capability for qualified

          Resources for each Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using

          the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing algorithm, respectively. The Day-Ahead Ex Ante

          MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Down Ramp Capability is the Ramp

          Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Down Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint

          Shadow Price where the Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Down Ramp

          Capability Requirement Constraint is as set forth in Schedule 29 and Schedule 29A,

          respectively.

          p.     Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMP, Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP, Day-Ahead Ex Ante

                 MCP, and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP Price Cap.

          All Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs, Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs, Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs,

          and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs will be capped at the Pricing VOLL.




                                                                      Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                          Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                      63.0.0


          q.        Day-Ahead Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee.

                    The Transmission Provider shall ensure the recovery of a Market Participant’s

          Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost for Resources committed by the

          Transmission Provider and scheduled in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, pursuant to Section 39.3.2B.

          r.        Determining the Day-Ahead Ex Ante and Day-Ahead Ex Post Short-Term

                    Reserve Market Clearing Price.

                    On a day-ahead market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-

          Ahead Ex Ante MCPs and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for Short-Term Reserve for

          qualified reserves for each Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, using the SCED algorithm and SCED-Pricing algorithm, respectively. The Day-

          Ahead Ex Ante MCP and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for Short-Term Reserve are the

          applicable Cooptimized Zonal Short-Term Reserve Requirement constraint Shadow

          Prices.




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         39.2.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Shortage Conditions in the Day-Ahead EORM
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


   If the sum of the fixed Demand Bids, Fixed Export Schedules, System Losses and Operating

   Reserve Requirements in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market cannot be

   satisfied by the maximum non-Emergency supply level of all available non-Emergency

   Resources, Import Schedules and Virtual Supply Offers, the Transmission Provider shall clear

   the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market pursuant to the following procedures.

          a.     Step One. The Transmission Provider shall incorporate for use in the Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market (i) the Market Participants’ Offers

                 submitted for each Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II,

                 and External Asynchronous Resource up to the Hourly Emergency Maximum

                 Limit, and up to the Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit and Hourly

                 Emergency Minimum Energy Storage Level, except for Resources selected to

                 provide Regulating Reserve, and (ii) the commitment of Generation Resources,

                 Demand Response Resources - Type I, and Demand Response Resources - Type

                 II that are designated as available for Emergency conditions only, and the

                 commitment of Electric Storage Resources with a Commitment Status of

                 Emergency Discharge, in amounts required to relieve the shortage condition in an

                 economic manner. Day-Ahead Schedules, Ex Ante LMPs, and Ex Ante MCPs

                 are then determined using the SCED algorithm. Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post

                 MCPs are then determined using the SCED-Pricing algorithm, where Proxy

                 Offers will be used as specified in Schedule 29A. Both SCED and SCED-Pricing

                 algorithms will include Scarcity Pricing based on the Operating Reserve Demand

                 Curves, Regulating and Spinning Reserve Demand Curves, and Regulating




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Shortage Conditions in the Day-Ahead EORM
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 Reserve Demand Curves if Operating Reserve is insufficient to meet the Market-

                 Wide Operating Reserve Requirement following the release of Emergency

                 Capacity described under (i) and (ii) above. Both SCED and SCED-Pricing

                 algorithms will include Scarcity Prices based on the Market-Wide Short-Term

                 Reserve Demand Curve if Short-Term Reserve is insufficient to meet the Market-

                 Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirement following the release of Emergency

                 Capacity described under (i) and (ii) above.

          b.     Step Two. If Operating Reserve is depleted and the Energy balance cannot be

                 achieved after the process described in Step One above has been implemented, the

                 Transmission Provider will curtail Fixed Demand Bids and Fixed Export

                 Schedules in proportion to the scheduled amounts. Under this situation, all

                 Energy and Operating Reserve will be priced at the Pricing VOLL.




                                                                    Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         39.2.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Surplus Conditions in the Day-Ahead EORM
MODULES                                                                                       43.0.0


   Surplus Conditions in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

   If the non-Emergency minimum supply from Offers and Fixed Import Schedules exceed cleared

   Demand Bids plus cleared Export Schedules plus cleared Virtual Bids less the Market-Wide

   Regulating Reserve Requirement, the Transmission Provider shall use the following procedures

   to clear the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   a.     Step One. The Transmission Provider shall incorporate for use in the Day-Ahead Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market the Market Participants’ Offers submitted for each

          Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, and Electric Storage

          Resource with a Commitment Status of Emergency Charge, down to the Emergency

          Minimum Limit, or Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit and Hourly Minimum

          Energy Storage Level and for each Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource down to the

          Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limit for an Inject or Emergency Inject

          Commitment Status or down to the Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit for a

          Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw, or Continuous Commitment Status, except for

          Resources selected to provide Regulating Reserve in amounts required to relieve the

          surplus condition in an economic manner.

   b.     Step Two. If the Energy balance is not achieved after Step One, the Transmission

          Provider will reduce supply, including Fixed Import Schedules, proportionately until

          Energy balance is achieved and the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market is

          cleared. If Regulating Reserve Scarcity occurs, then Day-Ahead Ex Ante LMPs and

          Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs shall contain negative Regulating Reserve Scarcity Prices and

          Day-Ahead Ex Ante MCPs for Regulating Reserve and Day-Ahead Ex Post MCPs for




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         39.2.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Surplus Conditions in the Day-Ahead EORM
MODULES                                                                                       43.0.0


          Regulating Reserve shall include positive Regulating Reserve Scarcity Prices, based upon

          the Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Demand Curves.

   c.     The Transmission Provider shall not partially commit Fast Start Resources, in SCED-

          Pricing, under both Step One and Step Two Surplus Conditions in the Day-Ahead

          EORM.




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        39.2.12
FERC Electric Tariff                           Day Ahead Load Forecasts for the Next Operating Day
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider shall develop Hourly Load Forecasts for the

                 MISO Balancing Authority Area and shall post these Load Forecasts as set forth

                 in the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            39.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Settlement
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


          All Day-Ahead Schedules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall

   be financially binding, except for GFA Schedules associated with Carved-Out GFAs as

   described under Section 38.8.4 of this Tariff. The fees and charges set forth in this Section shall

   be assessed to Market Participants with Day-Ahead Schedules and FTRs.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        39.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Charges for DA EORM Purchases
MODULES                                                                                     38.0.0



   a.     Market Participants that purchase Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market shall be charged the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the applicable Commercial

   Pricing Node for all Bids cleared, net of Day-Ahead Financial Schedules, for each Hour in the

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   b.     If a Market Participant elects to calculate and settle Energy purchases at the Day-Ahead

   Ex Post LMP for a Commercial Pricing Node for a Load Zone, the Market Participant shall be

   charged for its entire Load scheduled to be served from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market at the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP for a Commercial Pricing Node for a

   Load Zone.

   c.     Market Participants that purchase Energy using an External Asynchronous Resources

   Export Schedule shall be charged for exported Energy in Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market at the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the External Asynchronous

   Resources Commercial Pricing Node.

   d.     Market Participants that purchase Energy for Electric Storage Resource Transactions or

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources shall be charged for Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market at the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the applicable

   Resource’s Commercial Pricing Node.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.3.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                               Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charges
MODULES                                                                                     35.0.0


          Market Participants scheduled to purchase Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market, Virtual Bids, and Export Schedules, shall be charged a Day-Ahead

   Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge, excluding Energy purchases associated with schedules

   to charge for Electric Storage Resource Transactions. The Market Participant’s Day-Ahead

   Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge in a specific Hour shall equal the product of: (i) the

   Market Participant’s total cleared Demand Bid, Virtual Bids, and Export Schedules (in MWh)

   scheduled in that Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, and (ii) the per

   unit Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge rate in that Hour.

          The per unit Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge rate for a specific Hour

   shall equal: (i) the aggregate Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit payable to

   Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources, Demand Response Resources–Type I,

   Demand Response Resources–Type II, and Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources in the

   Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for that Hour, excluding Day-Ahead Revenue

   Sufficiency Guarantee Credits attributable to Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments,

   divided by (ii) the sum of the total cleared Demand Bids, Virtual Bids, and Exports Schedules in

   (MWh) of all Market Participants scheduled in that Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market.

          Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits attributable to Voltage and Local

   Reliability Commitments for a Resource shall be equal to the product of (a) Day-Ahead Revenue

   Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour for Day-Ahead Voltage and Local Reliability

   Commitments and (b) the Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment Allocation Ratio.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.3.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                              Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charges
MODULES                                                                                    35.0.0


   Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits attributable to Voltage and Local Reliability

   Commitments shall be allocated pursuant to Section 40.3.3.2.b.




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.3.1B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Day-Ahead Operating and Reserve Procurement Charges
MODULES                                                                                     35.0.0


   a.     Regulating Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of Regulating

          Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be assessed to

          Load Serving Entities, as set forth in Schedule 3.

   b.     Spinning Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of Spinning

          Reserves in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be assessed to

          Load Serving Entities, and Exporting Entities as set forth in Schedule 5.

   c.     Supplemental Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of

          Supplemental Reserves in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be

          assessed to Load Serving Entities, and Exporting Entities as set forth in Schedule 6.

   d.     Up Ramp Capability Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of Up Ramp

          Capability in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be assessed to

          Load Serving Entities and Exporting Entities as set forth in Section 40.3.3.1.b.

   e.     Down Ramp Capability Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of Down

          Ramp Capability in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be

          assessed to Load Serving Entities and Exporting Entities as set forth in Section

          40.3.3.1.b.

   f.     Short-Term Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of Short-

          Term Reserves in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be

          assessed to Load Serving Entities, and Exporting Entities as set forth in Schedule 51.




                                                                        Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                      39.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Payments for DA EORM Sales
MODULES                                                                                   33.0.0


   Payments for Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Sales:


          Market Participants that sell Energy, other than Energy from Demand Response

   Resources – Type I or Demand Response Resources - Type II, in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market shall be credited each Hour at the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the

   applicable Commercial Pricing Node, net of Day-Ahead Financial Schedules for all Offers

   cleared, other than cleared Offers for Demand Response Resources – Type I or Demand

   Response Resources - Type II, in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                        Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                     39.3.2A
FERC Electric Tariff                              Day-Ahead Operating Reserve Procurement Credits
MODULES                                                                                    43.0.0


   a.     Market Participants scheduled to supply Regulating Reserve from Generation Resources,

          Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, External

          Asynchronous Resources, and/or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources in the Day-

          Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be credited for all Regulating Reserve

          Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at the

          applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for Regulating Reserve.

   b.     Market Participants scheduled to supply Spinning Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market from Resources, shall be credited for all Spinning Reserve

          Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at the

          applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for Spinning Reserve.

   c.     Market Participants scheduled to supply Supplemental Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market from Resources, shall be credited for all Supplemental

          Reserve Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at

          the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for Supplemental Reserve.

   d.     Day-Ahead Ramp Capability Procurement Credits

          i.     Market Participants scheduled to supply Up Ramp Capability in the Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserves Market from Resources, excluding Demand

                 Response Resource - Type I, shall be credited for all Up Ramp Capability

                 Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at the

                 applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for Up Ramp Capability.

          ii.    Market Participants schedule to supply Down Ramp Capability in the Day-Ahead

                 Energy and Operating Reserves Market from Resources, excluding Demand




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.3.2A
FERC Electric Tariff                               Day-Ahead Operating Reserve Procurement Credits
MODULES                                                                                     43.0.0


                 Response Resource - Type I, shall be credited for all Down Ramp Capability

                 Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at the

                 applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for Down Ramp Capability.

   e.     Market Participants scheduled to supply Short-Term Reserve in the Day-Ahead Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market from Resources, and limited to online Short-Term

          Reserve in the case of Electric Storage Resources and Distributed Energy Aggregated

          Resources, shall be credited for all Short-Term Reserve schedules cleared in the Day-

          Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market at the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP

          for Short-Term Reserve.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.3.2B
FERC Electric Tariff                              Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments
MODULES                                                                                      52.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall determine whether any Generation Resources, Demand

   Response Resources, Electric Storage Resources or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources

   committed by the Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market have not recovered their Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost through the

   revenue received from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the Hours

   during the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation.

   If the Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost of a Generation Resource, Demand Response

   Resource, Electric Storage Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource exceeds the

   revenue received in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market over all the SCUC

   Instructed Hours of Operation in the Day for that Resource, then the Market Participant’s

   revenue from the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be augmented by an

   additional payment, called the Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit, in the amount

   of the shortfall for that Resource.

   The Transmission Provider shall evaluate the day-ahead Offers for a Resource, except for an

   Electric Storage Resource or a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, from the current

   Operating Day and the prior Operating Day if the Resource has: (1) a non-zero Day-Ahead

   Schedule for Energy in the last Hour of the prior Operating Day; and (2) a non-zero Day-Ahead

   Schedule for Energy in the first Hour of the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation in the current

   Operating Day; and (3) a positive initial on Hours value (i.e., the number of hours elapsed since

   the Resource was online in the prior Operating Day up to the start of the current Operating Day,

   calculated in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market process) that is less than the

   Resource’s Minimum Run Time for the current Operating Day. The Transmission Provider shall




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.3.2B
FERC Electric Tariff                             Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments
MODULES                                                                                     52.0.0


   use the lesser of the hourly Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost calculated using (1) the

   Resource’s day-ahead Offer from the prior Operating Day; or (2) the Resource’s day-ahead Offer

   from the current Operating Day, for the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation on the current

   Operating Day that are impacted by the Minimum Run Time. For Demand Response Resource-

   Type I, the Minimum Interruption Duration will be evaluated in lieu of Minimum Run Time.

   The Transmission Provider shall determine hourly whether any Resource with a Must-Run

   Commitment has not recovered the Resource’s Incremental Energy Cost for Energy scheduled

   above the achievable minimum and Operating Reserve costs for Operating Reserves scheduled

   above Self Schedule MWs. When calculating cost recovery, revenues considered are the

   revenues received for Energy scheduled above the achievable minimum for Operating Reserves

   scheduled above Self Schedule MWs, for Short-Term Reserve, for Up Ramp Capability and for

   Down Ramp Capability. The achievable minimum for a Resource, except an Electric Storage

   Resource or a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, shall equal the maximum of: (i) the

   maximum of the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit (or Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit if

   scheduled to provide Regulation Reserve), or Self Schedule MW amount for Energy; and (ii) the

   Day-Ahead schedule for Energy in the prior hour minus the product of the Hourly Ramp Rate

   and sixty (60) minutes.

   The achievable minimum for an Electric Storage Resource when the Commitment Status is

   Discharge shall equal the maximum of: (i) the applicable Hourly minimum limit of the Electric

   Storage Resource; or (ii) Self Schedule MW amount for Energy.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       39.3.2B
FERC Electric Tariff                              Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments
MODULES                                                                                      52.0.0


   The achievable minimum for an Electric Storage Resource when the Commitment Status is

   Charge shall equal the minimum of: (i) the applicable Hourly minimum limit of the Electric

   Storage Resource; or (ii) Self Schedule MW amount for Energy.

   The achievable minimum for an Electric Storage Resource when the Commitment Status is

   Continuous shall equal the maximum of: (i) the applicable Hourly minimum limit of the Electric

   Storage Resource; or (ii) Self Schedule MW amount for Energy.

   The achievable minimum for a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource when the Commitment

   Status is Inject or Emergency Inject shall equal the maximum of: (i) the applicable hourly

   minimum limit of the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or (ii) Self Schedule MW

   amount for Energy.

   The achievable minimum for a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource when the Commitment

   Status is Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw shall equal the minimum of: (i) the hourly minimum

   limit of the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or (ii) Self Schedule MW amount for

   Energy.

   The achievable minimum for a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource when the Commitment

   Status is Continuous shall equal the maximum of: (i) the applicable Hourly maximum limit of

   the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or (ii) Self Scheduled MW amount of Energy.

   If there is a shortfall, then the Transmission Provider shall augment the Market Participant’s

   revenue with a Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit.

   The Transmission Provider shall determine on an hourly basis whether Price Sensitive Demand

   Bid, Virtual Bid, and External Asynchronous Resources Export Schedule, or dispatchable Export

   Schedule charges are greater than the Energy value, calculated as the area under the demand




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        39.3.2B
FERC Electric Tariff                               Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payments
MODULES                                                                                       52.0.0


   curve for Energy as specified in the Market Participant’s Demand Bid, External Asynchronous

   Resources Export Schedule, or dispatchable Export Schedule. If there is a shortfall, the

   Transmission Provider shall augment the Market Participant’s revenue with a Day-Ahead

   Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit.

   The Transmission Provider shall determine on an hourly basis whether Virtual Supply Offer and

   dispatchable Import Schedule revenues are less than the Offer Costs for Energy as specified in

   the Market Participant’s Virtual Supply Offer or dispatchable Import Schedule. If there is a

   shortfall, the Transmission Provider shall augment the Market Participant’s revenue with a Day-

   Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit.

   The Transmission Provider shall determine on an hourly basis whether Up-to-TUC Interchange

   Schedule transmission usage costs are greater than the Transmission Usage Charge Bid or Offer.

   If there is a shortfall, the Transmission Provider shall augment the Market Participant’s revenue

   with a Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit.

   The Transmission Provider shall determine on an hourly basis whether a Market Participant’s

   revenues are less than the associated Verified Energy Offer costs. If there is a shortfall, the

   Transmission Provider shall augment the Market Participant’s revenue with a Day-Ahead

   Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit.

   All Market Participant Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits shall be funded in

   accordance with Section 39.3.1A and the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

   Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability Charge as set forth in Section 40.3.3.2.b.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      39.3.2C
FERC Electric Tariff                 Charges and Payments for Purchases and Sales for Demand Resp
MODULES                                                                                     37.0.0



   Charges and Payments for Purchases and Sales for Demand Response Resources

   When the Day-Ahead LMP is greater than or equal to the Net Benefits Price Threshold, Market

   Participants that sell Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market from

   Demand Response Resources shall be credited each Hour at the Day-Ahead LMP at the

   applicable Commercial Pricing Node. When the Day-Ahead LMP is less than the Net Benefit

   Price Threshold, Market Participants that sell Energy in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market from Demand Response Resources shall not be credited each Hour at the Day-

   Ahead LMP at the applicable Commercial Pricing Node. Market Participants with Day-Ahead

   Financial Schedules will be charged or credited the applicable Day-Ahead LMP for Day-Ahead

   Financial Schedule(s).




                                                                          Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          39.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    Payments and Charges for Financial and Interchange Schedules
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


          a.     Financial Schedules and Through Schedules are settled only for the Transmission

          Usage Charge derived pursuant to Section 39.3.3.c.

          b.     Import Schedules, net of Day-Ahead Financial Schedules, shall be credited, and

          Export Schedules, net of Day-Ahead Financial Schedules, shall be charged for all

          scheduled MWh at the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the appropriate Interface Commercial

          Pricing Node.

          c.     The Transmission Provider shall collect a Transmission Usage Charge for all

          Through Schedules in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The

          Transmission Usage Charges for Through Schedules from a given Point of Receipt to a

          given Point of Delivery shall be the product of: (i) the amount of Energy scheduled to be

          withdrawn by the Market Participant in each Hour at the Point of Delivery, in MWh; and

          (ii) the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the applicable Commercial Pricing Node for the Point

          of Delivery minus the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the Commercial Pricing Node for the

          Point of Receipt, in $/MWh. The Transmission Usage Charge includes the Cost of

          Congestion and the Cost of Losses as defined below; provided, however, that Energy

          delivered to a non-jurisdictional Generation Resource with existing Firm Point-To-Point

          Transmission Service at the Transmission Provider Interface is not subject to the Cost of

          Congestion or Cost of Losses as long as it does not schedule Energy into the

          Transmission Provider Region and does not Offer Energy into the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets.

                 i.       Cost of Congestion. The Cost of Congestion shall be calculated as the

                 Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the Point of




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                          39.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    Payments and Charges for Financial and Interchange Schedules
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 Delivery minus the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post

                 LMP at the Point of Receipt, as described in this Section.

                 ii.     Cost of Losses. The Cost of Losses shall be calculated as the Marginal

                 Losses Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the Point of Delivery

                 minus the Marginal Losses Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the

                 Point of Receipt, as described in this Section.

          d.     The Transmission Provider shall collect and disburse a Transmission Usage

          Charge for all Financial Schedules submitted to be considered for Settlement in the Day-

          Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The Transmission Usage Charges for the

          seller shall be the product of (i) the amount of Energy scheduled, in MWh, and (ii) the

          Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the applicable Commercial Pricing Node for the Delivery

          Point minus the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the applicable Commercial Pricing Node for

          the Source Point. The Transmission Usage Charges for the buyer shall be the product of:

          (i) the amount of Energy scheduled, in MWh, and (ii) the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the

          applicable Commercial Pricing Node for the Sink Point minus the Day-Ahead Ex Post

          LMP at the applicable Commercial Pricing Node for the Delivery Point.

          e. The Transmission Provider is not the Energy Market Counterparty to the sale of

          Energy under a Financial Schedule transaction and collects and disburses the

          Transmission Usage Charge for a Financial Schedule as agent for the buyer and seller.




                                                                              Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                             39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0




                              All FTRs will be settled pursuant to the provisions set forth below,

                       irrespective of whether they are obtained through the initial allocation,

                       FTR Auctions, contributions made to Network Upgrades, or through a

                       secondary FTR transaction.

                              a.      Calculation of the Transmission Congestion Credit

                                      Target Allocation. For each Hour in the Day-Ahead

                                      Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the Transmission

                                      Provider shall determine the Cost of Congestion associated

                                      with Transmission Service from a designated FTR Receipt

                                      Point to a designated FTR Delivery Point specified in each

                                      FTR Obligation or FTR Option. In each instance when the

                                      applicable Cost of Congestion from the FTR Receipt Point

                                      to the FTR Delivery Point is positive, the Transmission




                                      Provider shall credit to the FTR Holder (of either a FTR

                                      Obligation or FTR Option) an amount equal to the

                                      applicable hourly Cost of Congestion from the FTR Receipt

                                      Point to the FTR Delivery Point multiplied by the specified

                                      FTR Quantity (Transmission Congestion Credit). In each




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                   39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


                            instance when the applicable Cost of Congestion from the

                            FTR Receipt Point to the FTR Delivery Point is negative,

                            the Transmission Provider shall charge to each FTR Holder

                            of a FTR Obligation (but not the FTR Holder of a FTR

                            Option) an amount equal to the absolute value of the

                            applicable Cost of Congestion from the FTR Receipt Point

                            to the FTR Delivery Point multiplied by the specified FTR

                            Quantity.




                            The Transmission Provider shall calculate for each FTR

                            Holder for each Hour, the FTR Holder’s Target Allocation

                            for the Transmission Congestion Credit, which shall be the

                            sum of the FTR Holder’s Transmission Congestion Credits

                            for that Hour.

                       b.   Settlement of FTRs. The Transmission Provider shall

                            compare, for each Hour, the total of all Target Allocations

                            for the Transmission Congestion Credit to the Hourly

                            Transmission Congestion Charges collection.




                            i.     If the total of all Target Allocations for the




                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                           39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                        30.0.0


                             Transmission Congestion Credit for a given Hour is

                             less than the Hourly Transmission Congestion

                             Charges collection for that same Hour, the

                             Transmission Provider shall pay to each FTR

                             Holder an amount equal to its Target Allocation for

                             the Transmission Congestion Credit for that Hour

                             (Transmission Congestion Charge). The difference

                             between the total of all Transmission Congestion

                             Charges for a given Hour and the Hourly

                             Transmission Congestion Charges collection for

                             that same Hour shall accrue in the Excess

                             Congestion Charge Fund. After the end of a given

                             Month, the Excess Congestion Charge Fund shall be

                             distributed to fund any deficiency in the share of

                             Transmission Congestion Credits received by each

                             FTR Holder as described in Section 39.3.4.c.




                       ii.   If the total of all Transmission Congestion Credit

                             Target Allocations for a given Hour is equal to the

                             total of the Hourly Transmission Congestion

                             Charges collection for that same Hour, the




                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                             39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                          30.0.0


                             Transmission Provider shall credit to each FTR

                             Holder an amount equal to its Target Allocation for

                             the Transmission Congestion Credit for that Hour.

                       iii   If the total of all Target Allocations for the

                             Transmission Congestion Credit for a given Hour is

                             greater than the total of the Hourly Transmission

                             Congestion Charges collection for that same Hour,

                             the Transmission Provider shall credit to each FTR

                             Holder an amount equal to its share of the Hourly




                             Transmission Congestion Charges collection for

                             that same Hour in proportion to its Target

                             Allocation for the Transmission Congestion Credit,

                             concurrent with an FTR full funding guarantee

                             credit which when summed with the discounted

                             Transmission Congestion Credit will equal the

                             Transmission Congestion Credit Target Allocation.

                             The cost of full funding guarantee within each Hour

                             is allocated to FTR Holders on a pro rata basis

                             based upon the portion of the Transmission

                             Congestion Credit Target Allocation associated




                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                 39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                              30.0.0


                                  only with FTRs representing credit to FTR Holder.

                                  The Transmission Provider shall suspend fully

                                  funding revenue deficient FTRs under extraordinary

                                  circumstances. For the purposes of this Section

                                  39.3.4.b.iii, “extraordinary circumstances” shall

                                  mean an event of Force Majeure, as defined in

                                  Section 10.1 of this Tariff, affecting existing or

                                  planned transmission facilities that Transmission

                                  Provider determines is likely to result in a

                                  substantial revenue deficiency relating to the full

                                  funding of FTRs.




                                  The shortfalls in Hourly Transmission Congestion

                                  Charges shall be offset by credits from the Excess

                                  Congestion Charge Fund after the end of each

                                  Month.

                       c.   Determination and Disposition of Excess Congestion

                            Charge Fund.

                            i.    The Transmission Provider will distribute the

                                  amounts accumulated in the Excess Congestion

                                  Charge Fund collected for Operating Days during




                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                      39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0


                       the Month in question after the end of each Month

                       to each FTR Holder in proportion to the difference

                       between Transmission Congestion Credits received

                       by the FTR Holder during that Month and its total

                       Transmission Congestion Credit Target Allocations

                       for the Month. Amounts distributed to FTR

                       Holders will be accompanied by an equal and

                       opposite reduction of the FTR full funding

                       guarantee credit accumulated over the Month in

                       hourly funding processes as set forth in the Business

                       Practices Manuals.




                       The cost of the FTR full funding guarantee credit

                       allocated to FTR Holders will be reduced such that

                       the remaining total of funds for all FTR Holders is

                       distributed pro rata on the basis of the sum total of

                       the portion of the Transmission Congestion Credit

                       Target Allocation associated only with FTRs

                       representing a credit to the FTR Holder over the

                       entire Month. If insufficient funds exist in the

                       Excess Congestion Charge Fund to satisfy all




                                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


                                                deficiencies, then deficiencies will carry forward to

                                                the end of the Year.




   ii.After the end of each calendar year, the Excess Congestion Fund will be distributed, on a pro

   rata basis, to FTR Holders who did not receive their total Transmission Congestion Credit

   Target Allocations for the same calendar year. Amounts distributed to FTR Holders will be

   accompanied by an equal and opposite reduction of the FTR full funding guarantee credit

   accumulated over the Year in hourly and monthly funding processes. The cost of the FTR full

   funding guarantee credit allocated to FTR Holders is distributed pro rata on the basis of the sum

   total of the portion of the Transmission Congestion Credit Target Allocation associated with

   FTRs representing a credit to the FTR Holder over the Year. If insufficient funds exist in the

   Excess Congestion Charge Fund to satisfy all deficiencies at the end of the year, the deficiencies

   shall not be carried forward to the following calendar year.




                                                To the extent FTRs are fully funded and there is a

                                                surplus of funds in the Excess Congestion Fund, the

                                                aggregate remaining excess revenues attributable to




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                      39.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Settlement of FTRs
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0


                       the year-end Excess Congestion Charge Fund will

                       be distributed to all Transmission Customers taking

                       Network Integration Transmission Service or Firm

                       Point-To-Point Transmission Service based on a pro

                       rata share of their billing determinants used in

                       calculating the Schedule 10 charges and Schedule

                       23 charges associated with such Transmission

                       Service taken during the same calendar year,

                       regardless of whether these Transmission

                       Customers hold FTRs for their Transmission

                       Service. This year-end distribution of the Excess

                       Congestion Charge Fund to FTR Holders and/or to

                       Network Integration Transmission Service and Firm

                       Point-to-Point Transmission Service customers

                       constitutes final settlement and such distribution is

                       not subject to subsequent resettlements that may

                       occur. Any residual positive or negative Excess

                       Congestion Charge Fund that may result from such

                       resettlements shall be reflected in the then-current

                       calendar year annual distribution.




                                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           39.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                             Calculation of the Day-Ahead Marginal Losses Surplus
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Day-Ahead Marginal Losses Surplus, as specified

   below. The Day-Ahead Marginal Losses Surplus is summed with the Real-Time Marginal

   Losses Surplus, calculated pursuant to Section 40.5, to determine the Marginal Losses Surplus,

   allocated to Market Participants as described in Section 40.6.

          a.      The Transmission Provider shall calculate for each Hour of the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market the Day-Ahead Marginal Losses Surplus as the

          Total Day-Ahead Charges for Energy purchases, minus Total Day-Ahead Credits for

          Energy sales, minus Total Day-Ahead Congestion Charges:

                  i.     The total Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Charges for

                  Energy purchases (including cleared Virtual Bids and Export Schedules) for each

                  Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be the sum

                  across all Commercial Pricing Nodes of Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP multiplied by

                  the Scheduled Withdrawals excluding any purchases covered by Grandfathered

                  Agreement schedules or Day 1 Inadvertent Credit Schedules.

                  ii.    The total Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Credits for

                  Energy sales (including cleared Virtual Supply and Import Schedules) for each

                  Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be the sum

                  across all Commercial Pricing Nodes of Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP multiplied by

                  the Scheduled Injections excluding any sales covered by Grandfathered

                  Agreements or Day 1 Inadvertent Credit Schedules.

                  iii.   The total Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market Congestion

                  credits for each Hour of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market



                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                        39.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                          Calculation of the Day-Ahead Marginal Losses Surplus
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                 will be the sum across all Commercial Pricing Nodes of: (a) the Marginal

                 Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP multiplied by the

                 Scheduled Withdrawals (including cleared Virtual Bids and Export Schedules but

                 excluding withdrawals covered by Grandfathered Agreements or Day 1

                 Inadvertent Credit Schedules); minus (b) the Marginal Congestion Component of

                 the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP multiplied by the Scheduled Injections (including

                 cleared Virtual Supply Offers and Export Schedules but excluding any injections

                 covered by Grandfathered Agreements or Day 1 Inadvertent Credit Schedules).




                                                                         Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                      40.
FERC Electric Tariff              Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and Operating
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and Operating Day Processes and

   Settlement:




                                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            40.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Reliability Assessment Commitment (RAC)
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


   This Section contains the RAC procedures the Transmission Provider will follow using SCUC to

   commit Resources to meet forecast Energy, Operating Reserve Requirements, Up Ramp

   Capability Requirement, Down Ramp Capability Requirement, and Short-Term Reserve

   Requirements in each Hour of the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation based on Market

   Participants’ Offers submitted in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The

   RAC processes are as follows: (i) the Forward RAC process conducted up to seven (7) days prior

   to, and before the close of, the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, (ii) the RAC

   process conducted after the posting of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   results on the Day prior to the Operating Day, and (iii) the intra-Day Operating Day RAC

   process.




                                                                       Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                            40.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Transmission Provider Obligations
MODULES                                                                                         34.0.0


          The Transmission Provider in its role as the Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   Operator shall provide the following services for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market.

          i.     Establish and post on the internet, rules and procedures, including Offer rules, for

                 eligibility to participate in the RAC process in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market.

          ii.    Establish and post Offer rules for RAC, as such rules are set forth in Section 40.

          iii.   Commit Resources to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

                 Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market based on, but not limited to, system reliability needs,

                 system operational considerations, and the use of a SCUC algorithm to determine

                 the least costly means of supplying the Capacity required to serve the forecast

                 demand and satisfy the Operating Reserve Requirements, Up Ramp Capability

                 Requirements, Down Ramp Capability Requirements, and Short-Term Reserve

                 Requirements. The selection will be communicated either electronically or

                 through other means to the Market Participants. Virtual Transactions and

                 Resources on either planned or forced outages are not permitted to participate in

                 any RAC process in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                        Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                           40.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    RAC Resource Offer Obligation
MODULES                                                                                        37.0.0


   a.     Designated Capacity Resource Obligation – Energy, Contingency Reserve, and

          Short-Term Reserve. Consistent with Section 69A.5, Market Participants with

          designated Capacity Resources must submit, for any portion of a Resource designated as

          a Capacity Resource, a Self-Schedule (not applicable for Demand Response Resources)

          or Offer for Energy, Contingency Reserve, and Short-Term Reserve. A designated

          Capacity Resource is eligible to clear Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability

          if the Resource is dispatchable and indicates participation through its Up and Down

          Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. Such Offers shall be consistent with the requirements

          specified in Section 40 and in the Business Practices Manuals. This designated Capacity

          Resource must Offer obligation applies to all RAC processes executed prior to the

          Operating Day as specified in RAR, except to the extent that the designated Capacity

          Resource is unavailable to provide Energy, Contingency Reserve, or Short-Term Reserve

          due to a forced or planned outage or other physical operating restriction consistent with

          this Tariff.

   b.     Transitional Designated Capacity Resource Obligation – Regulating Reserve.

          Market Participants with designated Capacity Resources must submit, for any portion of

          a Resource designated as a Capacity Resource, an Offer for Regulating Reserve if a

          Regulation Qualified Resource, provided that, such must-offer requirement shall

          terminate one hundred eighty (180) days after the implementation of the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Markets. Such Offers shall be consistent with the requirements

          specified in this Section and in the Business Practices Manuals. This transitional

          obligation applies to all RAC processes executed prior to the Operating Day, except to




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    RAC Resource Offer Obligation
MODULES                                                                                        37.0.0


          the extent that the designated Capacity Resource is unable to provide Regulating Reserve

          due to a forced or planned outage or other physical operating restrictions consistent with

          this Tariff.

   c.     Releasing Designated Capacity Resource Obligation. The Market Participants are

          released from the must Offer obligation if not committed in the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market or any RAC process prior to the Operating Day. The

          Transmission Provider may curtail Market Participants’ Export Schedules sourced from

          designated Capacity Resources during the Operating Day for Emergencies or to maintain

          MISO Balancing Authority Area reliability. Procedures for such Curtailments shall be

          specified in the Business Practices Manuals.

   d.     Non-designated Capacity Resource Obligation. A Market Participant shall not have

          the obligation to Offer Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

          Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve into the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets

          for any portion of a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             40.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    RAC Data Inputs
MODULES                                                                                          41.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall use the data inputs set forth in this Section in executing the

   RAC process.

          a.      Load Forecast

                  The Transmission Provider shall conduct Hourly Load Forecasts for the

                  Transmission Provider Region pursuant to procedures set forth in the Business

                  Practices Manuals.

          b.      Net Scheduled Interchange

                  The Transmission Provider shall consider cleared Day-Ahead Interchange

                  Schedules and Real-Time Interchange Schedules when executing the RAC

                  process.

          c.      Resource Information

                  Market Participants may, but are not obligated to, submit Offers for any Capacity

                  not selected for a Day-Ahead Schedule. Market Participants must indicate for

                  each Hour of the Operating Day if Resources are to be self-committed, or if

                  Electric Storage Resources are to be offered in the Commitment Status of

                  Discharge or Continuous. Market Participants must indicate for each Hour of the

                  Operating Day the Commitment Status of Distributed Energy Aggregated

                  Resources. Market Participants whose Resources were not selected for a Day-

                  Ahead Schedule, but are designated as Capacity Resources pursuant to RAR, are

                  obligated to submit Offers or Self-Schedules into the RAC process conducted the

                  Day prior to the Operating Day after the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                  Reserve Market results are posted. Market Participants whose Electric Storage




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             40.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    RAC Data Inputs
MODULES                                                                                          41.0.0


                 Resources and/or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources were not offered in

                 the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, but are designated as

                 Capacity Resources pursuant to RAR, are obligated to submit Offers with a

                 Commitment Status of either Discharge or Continuous for Electric Storage

                 Resources or either Inject or Continuous for Distributed Energy Aggregated

                 Resources into the RAC process conducted the Day prior to the Operating Day

                 after the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market results are posted. A

                 Market Participant must submit or update their real-time Offers and/or Self-

                 Schedules prior to the execution of the RAC process, which normally occurs at

                 1430 EPT or one hour following the posting of the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve results, whichever is later.

          d.     Offer Requirements and Specifications for the RAC Process

                 A Market Participant intending to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

                 Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve into the RAC

                 process shall submit the information requested in the Real-Time Offer

                 specifications described in Sections 40.2.5 through 40.2.7.

          e.     Intermittent and Dispatchable Intermittent Resource Forecast

                 The Transmission Provider shall conduct Hourly Intermittent Resource and

                 Dispatchable Intermittent Resource Forecasts for the Transmission Provider

                 Region pursuant to procedures set forth in the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     RAC Process
MODULES                                                                                       44.0.0


   a.      Timing

   The Transmission Provider will conduct the Forward RAC process as necessary beginning seven

   (7) Days prior to the Operating Day. The Transmission Provider will conduct a Day-Ahead RAC

   process sequentially after the closing and publishing of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market results at 1330 hours EPT, or such later time as may be required from time to

   time due to unanticipated events. The Day-Ahead RAC rebid process starts at 1330 hours EPT

   or following the posting of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market results,

   whichever is greater, and closes one Hour after the posting of the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market results, at which time the Day-Ahead RAC analysis begins. The

   Transmission Provider will conduct RAC processes as necessary during the Operating Day.

   b.      RAC Objective Function

   The Transmission Provider shall use the RAC process to commit Resources in a manner that

   minimizes the total Capacity costs to satisfy the Load Forecast, Operating Reserve

   Requirements, Up Ramp Capability Requirement, Down Ramp Capability Requirement, and

   Short-Term Reserve Requirements using a SCUC algorithm that minimizes the total

   commitment costs of procuring the Capacity needed to meet one-hundred percent (100%) of the

   Transmission Provider Load Forecast, Regulating Reserve Requirement, Spinning Reserve

   Requirement, Supplemental Reserve Requirement, Up Ramp Capability Requirement, Down

   Ramp Capability Requirement, and Short-Term Reserve Requirement while enforcing physical

   and reliability constraints.

   The commitment costs to procure Capacity include all costs based on Start-Up Offers, No-Load

   Offers, Energy Offer curves up to the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit for Generation




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                             40.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        RAC Process
MODULES                                                                                          44.0.0


   Resources, No-Load Offers, Energy Offer curves up to: (i) Hourly Economic Maximum Charge

   Limit when the Commitment Status is Charge; (ii) Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit

   when the Commitment Status is Discharge; or (iii) zero (0) MW when the Commitment Status is

   Continuous for Electric Storage Resources, and in the case of Demand Response Resources-

   Type II, all costs based on Energy Offers, Shut-Down Offers, and Hourly Curtailment Offers for

   Demand Response Resources-Type I.

   c.     Notification

   The Transmission Provider will notify the Market Participants of those Resources that have been

   committed in any RAC process sufficiently in advance to enable the Market Participant to

   comply with RAC obligations, consistent with the design and operating characteristics of such

   Resources, and will instruct such Market Participants when to start their Resources and operate

   at the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit. The Transmission Provider will notify the Market

   Participants of Electric Storage Resources that have been offered in any RAC process when the

   Commitment Status is Charge, Discharge, or Continuous sufficiently in advance to enable the

   Market Participant to comply with RAC obligations, consistent with the design and operating

   characteristics of such Resources, and will instruct such Market Participants when to start their

   Resources and operate at: (i) Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit when the Commitment

   Status is Charge; (ii) Hourly Minimum Discharge Limit when Commitment Status is Discharge;

   or (iii) zero (0) MW when the Commitment Status is Continuous. The Transmission Provider

   will notify the Market Participant by phone or electronic communication prior to the start of the

   Operating Day of those Resources that have been committed for a Voltage and Local Reliability

   Commitment in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or any RAC Process




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                              40.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         RAC Process
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


   conducted prior to the Operating Day. The Transmission Provider will notify the Market

   Participant by phone or electronic communication during the Operating Day for those Resources

   that have been committed for a Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment in any RAC process

   that is necessary during the Operating Day.

   d.     Resource Obligations

   Resources committed by the Transmission Provider in any RAC process must adhere to

   instructions on when to start and operate in their normal dispatch range, to the extent feasible,

   and must submit an Energy Offer, applicable Operating Reserve Offers, a Resource Offer Up and

   Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status, and an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for

   the Resource’s full Capacity in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market regardless

   of whether all or a portion of the Resource’s Capacity is or is not designated as a Capacity

   Resource. Electric Storage Resources offered in RAC process in Charge, Discharge, or

   Continuous Commitment Status must adhere to instructions on when to start and operate in their

   normal dispatch range in that Commitment Status, to the extent feasible, and must submit an

   Energy Offer corresponding to: (i) Charge; (ii) Discharge; or (iii) Continuous; applicable

   Operating Reserves Offers; and a Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch

   Status for the Resource’s full Capacity in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   regardless of whether all or a portion of the Resource’s Capacity is or is not designated as a

   Capacity Resource.

   e.     Electric Storage Resources assumptions in RAC process

   The Transmission Provider shall assume the Offer parameters offered into RAC for Electric

   Storage Resources are feasible and support the resultant Energy Storage Level. In case of




                                                                           Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  RAC Process
MODULES                                                                                    44.0.0


   infeasibility, a minimum dispatch volume will be assumed and any Hourly Self-Scheduled

   volume and/or Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level, or Hourly Minimum Energy Storage

   Level will be ignored.




                                                                     Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                          40.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       40.1.A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Look Ahead Commitment (LAC)
MODULES                                                                                    34.0.0


          This Section contains the procedures the Transmission Provider follows using a security

   constrained unit commitment algorithm to recommend Resource commitments and

   decommitments to meet forecast Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

   Capability, and Short-Term Reserve requirements in each interval of the LAC process based on

   Market Participants’ Offers submitted in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                      Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                         40.1.A.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Transmission Provider Obligations
MODULES                                                                                         34.0.0


   The Transmission Provider, in its role as the Energy and Operating Reserve Market operator,

   shall provide the following services for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          i.     Establish and post on the internet, rules and procedures, including Offer rules,

          for eligibility to participate in the LAC process in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market, consistent with this Section 40.

          ii.    Commit and decommit Resources to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up

          Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market based on, but not limited to, system reliability

          needs, system operational considerations, and the use of a security constrained unit

          commitment algorithm to determine the least costly means to serve the Load Forecast,

          Operating Reserve Requirements, Up Ramp Capability requirement, Down Ramp

          Capability requirement, Short-Term Reserve Requirements, and other demand

          requirements. The selection will be communicated either electronically or through other

          means to the Market Participants. Virtual Transactions and Resources on either planned

          or Forced Outages are not permitted to participate in the LAC process in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                       Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                          40.1.A.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    LAC Data Inputs
MODULES                                                                                          38.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall use the data inputs set forth in this Section in executing the

   LAC process.

   a.     Load Forecast

   The Transmission Provider shall conduct Load Forecasts for the LAC process intervals for the

   Transmission Provider Region pursuant to procedures set forth in the Business Practices

   Manuals.

   b.     Net Scheduled Interchange

   The Transmission Provider shall consider Interchange Schedules cleared in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market and Interchange Schedules in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market when executing the LAC process.

   c.     Intermittent Resource and Dispatchable Intermittent Resource Forecasts

   The Transmission Provider shall conduct Intermittent Resource and Dispatchable Intermittent

   Resource forecasts for the LAC process intervals for the Transmission Provider Region pursuant

   to procedures set forth in the Business Practices Manuals.

   d.     Resource Information

   Market Participants may, but are not obligated to, submit Offers for any Capacity not selected for

   a Day-Ahead Schedule. Market Participants must indicate for each Hour of the Operating Day if

   Resources are to be self-committed.

   e.     Offer Requirements and Specifications for the LAC Process

   A Market Participant intending to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

   Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve into the LAC process shall submit the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.1.A.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  LAC Data Inputs
MODULES                                                                                        38.0.0


   information requested in the Real-Time Offer specifications described in Sections 40.2.5 through

   40.2.7.

   f.        Electric Storage Resources assumptions in the LAC process

   The Transmission Provider shall assume the Offer parameters offered into LAC for Electric

   Storage Resources are feasible and support the resultant Energy Storage Level. In case of

   infeasibility, a minimum dispatch volume will be assumed and any Hourly Self-Scheduled

   volume and/or Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level, or Hourly Minimum Energy Storage

   Level will be ignored.

   g.        Distributed Energy Resource assumptions in the LAC process

   The Transmission Provider shall assume the Offer parameters offered into LAC for Distributed

   Energy Aggregated Resources are feasible. In case of infeasibility, a minimum dispatch volume

   will be assumed and any Hourly Self-Scheduled volume will be ignored.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               40.1.A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            LAC Process
MODULES                                                                                              39.0.0


   a.     Timing

          The Transmission Provider will conduct the LAC process every fifteen (15) minutes or

   more frequently as may be deemed necessary during the Operating Day. The LAC study period

   shall be three (3) hours or such other period as may be determined by the Transmission Provider

   based on operational conditions. The LAC process will use the following rules for the

   granularity of the LAC intervals: (i) each interval shall be 15 minutes for the first two hours of

   the study; (ii) each interval shall be 30 minutes for the third hour of the study; and (iii) each

   interval shall be 60 minutes for any other hours of the study. Each LAC study involves

   simultaneous analysis of up to three (3) scenarios with varying assumptions for the forecasted

   system conditions of the LAC study period. The LAC study period will generally overlap with

   the Intra-Day RAC study period, which includes all remaining hours of the Operating Day.

   When considering Resource commitments and decommitments during the LAC study period, the

   Transmission Provider will primarily rely on the LAC study results. The Transmission Provider

   will primarily rely on the Intra-Day RAC study results for Resource commitment decisions

   beyond the LAC study period.

   b.     LAC Objective Function

          The Transmission Provider shall use the LAC process, using a security constrained unit

   commitment algorithm to recommend Resource commitments and decommitments for each

   interval of the LAC process with the objective of minimizing the Production Costs and Operating

   Reserve Costs while meeting the Transmission Provider Load Forecast, Regulating Reserve

   requirement, Spinning Reserve requirement, Supplemental Reserve requirement, Up Ramp

   Capability Requirement, Down Ramp Capability Requirement, Short-Term Reserve




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           40.1.A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        LAC Process
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


   Requirement and other demand requirements, and while enforcing physical and reliability

   constraints.

   Resource commitments that have been made previously by the Transmission Provider shall be

   considered in the following manner in the LAC process:

          i.      A Resource is deemed committed, and not considered eligible to be decommitted

                  through the LAC process, during the portion of the LAC study period for which

                  the Resource has been committed by the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                  Reserve Market.

          ii.     A Resource is deemed committed, and is eligible to be decommitted through the

                  LAC process, during the portion of the LAC study period for which the Resource

                  has been committed through any prior RAC process or any prior LAC process.

          iii.    A Resource is deemed uncommitted, and is eligible for commitment and

                  subsequent decommitment through the LAC process, during the portion of the

                  LAC study period for which the Resource has not been committed by any prior

                  process.

   c.     Notification

          The Transmission Provider will notify the Market Participants of Resources that have

   been committed or decommitted in the LAC process sufficiently in advance to enable the Market

   Participants to comply with LAC obligations, consistent with the design and operating

   characteristics of such Resources, and will instruct such Market Participants when to start their

   Resources and operate at the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit, or when to stop their Resources.

   The Transmission Provider will notify the Market Participants of Electric Storage Resources that




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.1.A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         LAC Process
MODULES                                                                                           39.0.0


   have been offered in any LAC process in Charge, Discharge, or Continuous Commitment Status

   sufficiently in advance to enable the Market Participants to comply with LAC obligations,

   consistent with the design and operating characteristics of such Resources, and will instruct such

   Market Participants when to start their Resources and operate at: (i) Hourly Economic Maximum

   Charge Limit in Charge Commitment Status; (ii) Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit in

   Discharge Commitment Status; or (iii) at zero (0) MW in Continuous Commitment Status. The

   Transmission Provider will notify the Market Participants of Distributed Energy Aggregated

   Resources that have been offered in any LAC process when the Commitment Status is

   Withdraw, Inject, or Continuous sufficiently in advance to enable the Market Participant to

   comply with LAC obligations, consistent with the design and operating characteristics of such

   Resources, and will instruct such Market Participants when to start their Resources and operate

   at: (i) Hourly Economic Minimum Withdraw Limit when the Commitment Status is Withdraw;

   (ii) Hourly Minimum Inject Limit when Commitment Status is Inject; or (iii) zero (0) MW when

   the Commitment Status is Continuous. The Transmission Provider will notify the Market

   Participant by phone or electronic communication during the Operating Day for those Resources

   that have been committed for a Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment in any LAC process.

   d.     Resource Obligations

          Resources committed by the Transmission Provider in the LAC process must adhere to

   instructions on when to start and operate in their normal dispatch range, to the extent feasible,

   and must submit an Energy Offer, applicable Operating Reserve Offers, a Resource Offer Up and

   Down Ramp Capability dispatch status, and an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for

   the Resource’s full Capacity in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market regardless




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.1.A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         LAC Process
MODULES                                                                                           39.0.0


   of whether all or a portion of the Resource’s Capacity is or is not designated as a Capacity

   Resource. Electric Storage Resources offered in any LAC process in Charge, Discharge, or

   Continuous Commitment Status must adhere to instructions on when to start and operate in their

   normal dispatch range in that Commitment Status, to the extent feasible, and must submit an

   Energy Offer corresponding to: (i) Charge; (ii) Discharge; or (iii) Continuous; applicable

   Operating Reserves Offers; and a Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch

   Status for the Resource’s full Capacity in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   regardless of whether all or a portion of the Resource’s Capacity is or is not designated as a

   Capacity Resource. Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources offered in any LAC process must

   adhere to instructions on when to start and operate in their appropriate dispatch range in that

   Commitment Status, to the extent feasible, and must submit an Energy Offer corresponding to

   the offered Commitment Status; applicable Operating Reserves Offers; a Resource Offer Up and

   Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status; and an On-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status

   for the Resource’s full Capacity in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   regardless of whether all or a portion of the Resource’s Capacity is or is not designated as a

   Capacity Resource.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                     41.0.0


          The Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market is a physically binding market in

   which (i) cleared values and Dispatch Targets for Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning

   Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

   Reserve, (ii) Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for Energy, and (iii) Real-

   Time Ex Ante and Real-Time Ex Post Regulating Reserve MCP, Regulating Mileage MCP,

   Spinning Reserve MCP, Supplemental Reserve MCP, Up Ramp Capability MCP, Down Ramp

   Capability MCP, and Short-Term Reserve MCP are calculated for each five (5) minute Dispatch

   Interval based on submitted Offers and using SCED and SCED-Pricing algorithms as set forth in

   this Section 40.2. The clearing and pricing of Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

   Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market is based on a simultaneous co-optimization processes in which the total costs of

   Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

   Reserve are minimized. The SCED simultaneous co-optimization process ensures: (i) that all

   Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs, Operating Reserve MCPs, Up Ramp Capability MCPs, Down Ramp

   Capability MCPs, and Short-Term Reserve MCPs for each Resource supplying Energy,

   Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve

   through economic clearing are greater than or equal to the corresponding Energy, Operating

   Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve costs

   respectively when the Resource is not scheduled at a limit. Such Energy, Operating Reserve, Up

   Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve costs are equal to the

   corresponding Energy, Operating Reserve, and/or off-line Short-Term Reserve Offers for the

   Resource plus any Opportunity Costs incurred from any reductions in the sale of an alternative




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                             40.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                        41.0.0


   product; (ii) available Regulating Reserve in excess of requirements can be utilized to meet

   Contingency Reserve requirements, where only Regulating Capacity Offer will be taken into

   account for the portion of Regulating Reserve used to meet Contingency Reserve requirements,

   and available Spinning Reserve in excess of requirements can be used to meet Supplemental

   Reserve requirements; and (iii) Regulating Reserve Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs are greater than or

   equal to Spinning Reserve Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs, and Spinning Reserve Real-Time Ex Ante

   MCPs are greater than or equal to Supplemental Reserve Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs.

          SCED-Pricing, as described in Schedule 29A of this Tariff, uses simultaneous co-

   optimization to calculate Real-Time Ex Post LMP and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs. SCED-Pricing

   allows Fast Start Resources and Emergency Operations Resources that are committed in any

   RAC process and scheduled at limits by SCED to set Real-Time Ex Post Prices. In instances

   when SCED indicates Energy or Reserve scarcity or the violation of transmission constraints,

   SCED-Pricing can set prices by reflecting the cost of committing a Fast Start Resource if this is

   an action that the Transmission Provider could take to alleviate the scarcity or violation at lower

   cost than the scarcity price or transmission violation penalty price.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                      40.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Operations
MODULES                                                                                   34.0.0


          The Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market operates continuously throughout

   the Operating Day on a five (5) minute basis. The Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market is cleared each Dispatch Interval based on Real-Time Energy, Operating Reserve and

   Short-Term Reserve Offers and the Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status to determine

   Dispatch Targets for Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up

   Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve for each Resource for the

   end of the next Dispatch Interval.




                                                                    Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                            40.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Transmission Provider Obligations
MODULES                                                                                         38.0.0


   The Transmission Provider, in its role as the Energy and Operating Reserve Market Operator,

   shall provide the following services for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          a.     Establish and post on the internet rules and procedures, including Offer rules, for

                 eligibility to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down

                 Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market.

          b.     Establish and post on the internet rules for determination of any additional

                 charges necessary to support efficient operations of the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market.

          c.     Determine the power system conditions within the Transmission Provider Region

                 every five (5) minutes by using the most recent power flow solution produced by

                 the State Estimator.

          d.     Dispatch Resources to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

                 Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market based on, but not limited to, system reliability needs,

                 system operational considerations, and the use of a SCED algorithm to determine

                 the least costly means of serving the forecast demand, Charge offers of Electric

                 Storage Resources and satisfying the Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

                 Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

          e.     Communicate Dispatch Targets to Resources every five (5) minutes based on the

                 results of the SCED algorithm.

          f.     Calculate and transmit Setpoint Instructions to Resources as set forth in the




                                                                             Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                                          40.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Transmission Provider Obligations
MODULES                                                                                       38.0.0


                 Business Practices Manuals.

          g.     Provide the Settlement functions associated with the purchase and sale of Energy,

                 Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-

                 Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          h.     Determine and post the Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post LMPs

                 for Energy, Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for

                 Operating Reserves, Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for

                 Up Ramp Capability, Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs

                 for Down Ramp Capability, and Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs and Real-Time Ex

                 Post MCPs for Short-Term Reserve for each five (5) minute Dispatch Interval.




                                                                           Effective On: June 6, 2022
MISO                                                                                           40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        42.0.0


   a.     Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirements

          All cleared Regulating Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          must be deployable in both the regulation-up and regulation-down directions within the

          Regulation Response Time consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as

          set forth in Schedule 29. The Regulation Response Time will be determined and/or

          adjusted by the Transmission Provider on a periodic basis to comply with Applicable

          Reliability Standards. The hourly Real-Time Market-Wide Regulating Reserve

          Requirements will be initially set equal to the corresponding hourly day-ahead Market-

          Wide Regulating Reserve Requirements as established by the Transmission Provider in

          the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, but may be adjusted if necessary

          to ensure reliable operations. The Real-Time Market-Wide Regulating Reserve

          Requirement may vary on an hourly basis if permitted by Applicable Reliability

          Standards. All Regulating Reserve cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market must be supplied by Regulation Qualified Resources. The percentage of

          Regulating Reserve cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market on

          any individual Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource–Type II, Electric

          Storage Resource, External Asynchronous Resource, and/or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource shall initially be limited to twenty percent of the hourly Real-Time

          Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement to the extent that such limitation does not

          create Regulating Reserve scarcity conditions or any other adverse reliability related

          conditions, and may be further limited on Demand Response Resources – Type II,

          Electric Storage Resources or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources based on




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       42.0.0


          Applicable Reliability Standards. The amount of Regulating Reserve cleared in the Real-

          Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market on an Electric Storage Resource should

          ensure that it will have sufficient Energy Storage Level to support deployment of

          Regulating Reserve.

   b.     Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Product Requirements

          All cleared Contingency Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          must be deployable within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period. The Real-Time

          Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement shall be equal to the corresponding

          hourly Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirements as established by the

          Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, but may

          be adjusted by the Transmission Provider if necessary to comply with Applicable

          Reliability Standards. The Real-Time Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement

          may vary on an hourly basis if permitted by Applicable Reliability Standards. Following

          a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction, the Market-Wide Contingency Reserve

          Requirement may be temporarily reduced by the amount of the deployment, and then

          restored to the pre-contingency Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement ninety

          (90) minutes after the end of the Disturbance Recovery Period or such other

          replenishment time as may be specified by Applicable Reliability Standards. All Market-

          Wide Spinning Reserve cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          must be supplied by Spin Qualified Resources. All Market-Wide Supplemental Reserve

          cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be supplied by

          Supplemental Qualified Resources. The Real-Time Market-Wide Spinning Reserve




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         42.0.0


          requirement will be equal to the Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement

          multiplied by the greater of (i) the minimum frequency responsive Contingency Reserve

          percentage requirement specified by Applicable Reliability Standards, if applicable, and

          (ii) the minimum Spinning Reserve percentage requirement specified by Applicable

          Reliability Standards. The Real-Time Market-Wide Supplemental Reserve requirement

          will be equal to the Market–Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement minus the Real-

          Time Market-Wide Spinning Reserve Requirement. The percentage of Spinning Reserve

          and/or Supplemental Reserve cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market on any individual Resource shall be limited to twenty percent of the hourly Real-

          Time Market-Wide Contingency Reserve Requirement to the extent that such limitation

          does not create scarcity conditions or any other adverse reliability related conditions, and

          may be further limited on specific Demand Response Resource – Type I, Demand

          Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and/or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resources based on Applicable Reliability Standards. The amount of

          Spinning Reserve and/or Supplemental Reserve cleared in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market on an Electric Storage Resource should ensure that it will have

          sufficient Energy Storage Level to support deployment of Spinning and/or Supplemental

          Reserve.

   c.     Co-optimized Zonal Operating Reserve Product Requirements

          In the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, one or more Reserve Zones will

          be established to ensure Regulating Reserve, Contingency Reserve, and Short-Term

          Reserve are dispersed in a manner that prevents adverse operating conditions that affect




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       42.0.0


          the reliability of the Transmission System in accordance with Good Utility Practice. The

          definition and attributes of the Reserve Zones utilized in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market for a specific Operating Day will be the same as the definition

          and attributes of the Reserve Zones utilized in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market, including the number of Reserve Zones required, and the assignment of

          Resource, Load and/or Interface Elemental Pricing Nodes to Reserve Zones.

   d.     Product Requirements for Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability

          The Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirements and Market-Wide Down Ramp

          Capability Requirements represent the need for Resources with ability to adjust their

          power outputs consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in

          Schedule 29 to respond to future expected changes in dispatchable generation,

          dispatchable Electric Storage Resources or dispatchable Distributed Energy Aggregated

          Resources to account for forecasted changes in load and Scheduled Interchange while

          considering the contribution of non-dispatchable generation and a selected degree of

          confidence in short-term uncertainty associated with the Load Forecast, non-dispatchable

          generation forecast, and units, including Electric Storage Resources and Distributed

          Energy Aggregated Resources not responding to their real-time Setpoints within the

          Ramp Capability Response Time. Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability

          MCPs and analysis of reliable delivery within transmission constraints incorporate the

          same Reserve Zones defined for Operating Reserve.

                 i.      Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Product Requirements.

          The Real-Time Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirement will be established each




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         42.0.0


          Dispatch Interval by the Transmission Provider to estimate the required Up Ramp

          Capability which represents the future need to ramp from the Resource Dispatch Targets

          for Energy calculated for the end of the Dispatch Interval to the expected increase in

          required Energy (negative for a decrease in required Energy) plus the unexpected upward

          variation in the market-wide Energy needs at the Ramp Capability Response Time

          beyond the end of the Dispatch Interval for a selected degree of confidence. The Market-

          Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirement must be non-negative; if the expected upward

          change in the required Energy plus the variability is less than zero, then the Market-Wide

          Up Ramp Capability Requirement will be set to zero. The Market-Wide Up Ramp

          Capability Requirement will be updated each Dispatch Interval based on the most

          recently available forecast and uncertainty data. The Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability

          Requirement may be manually adjusted to ensure reliable operations. All Up Ramp

          Capability cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be

          supplied by Up and Down Ramp Capability Qualified Resources. The percentage of Up

          Ramp Capability cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market on any

          individual Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resource, External Asynchronous Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource

          shall initially be limited to twenty percent of the Real-Time Market-Wide Up Ramp

          Capability Requirement to the extent that such limitation does not create Up Ramp

          Capability shortages or any other adverse reliability related conditions. This individual

          Resource percentage limit may be adjusted by the Transmission Provider to improve

          reliability, system operations, or market efficiency.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        42.0.0


                 ii.     Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Product Requirements.

          The Real-Time Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement will be established

          each Dispatch Interval by the Transmission Provider to estimate the required Down

          Ramp Capability which represents the future need to ramp from the Resource Dispatch

          Targets for Energy calculated for the end of the Dispatch Interval to the expected

          decrease in required Energy (negative for an increase in required Energy) plus the

          unexpected downward variation in the market-wide Energy needs at the Ramp Capability

          Response Time beyond the end of the Dispatch Interval for a selected degree of

          confidence. The Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement must be non-

          negative; if the expected downward change in the required Energy plus the downward

          variability is less than zero, then the Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement

          will be set to zero. The Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement will be

          updated each Dispatch Interval based on the most recently available forecast and

          uncertainty data. The Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement may be

          manually adjusted to ensure reliable operations. All Down Ramp Capability cleared in

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be supplied by Up and Down

          Ramp Capability Qualified Resources. The percentage of Down Ramp Capability

          cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market on any individual

          Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, Electric Storage Resource,

          External Asynchronous Resources or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource shall

          initially be limited to twenty percent of the Real-Time Market-Wide Down Ramp

          Capability Requirement to the extent that such limitation does not create Down Ramp




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                         42.0.0


          Capability shortages or any other adverse reliability related conditions. This individual

          Resource percentage limit may be adjusted by the Transmission Provider to improve

          reliability, system operations, or market efficiency.

   e.     Short-Term Reserve Product Requirements

          All cleared Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          must be deployable within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period. All Short-Term

          Reserve cleared in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be

          supplied by Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources. Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve

          Requirements, Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements, and Local Short-Term

          Reserve Requirements are explained below.

          i.     Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

                 The real-time Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirement shall be equal to

                 the corresponding hourly Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirements as

                 established by the Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market, but may be adjusted by the Transmission Provider if necessary to

                 address market-wide reliability needs.

          ii.    Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

                 The real-time Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements will be

                 established as necessary for a sub-region for each Dispatch Interval to establish

                 the required Short-Term Reserve needed to be dispatched as Energy to restore

                 flows within limits following contingencies or abnormal events. Sub-Regional

                 Short-Term Reserve Requirements will be derived from rampable Capacity needs,




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Product Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       42.0.0


                 Energy schedules, and contractual constraints, such as the Sub-Regional Power

                 Balance Constraints, to ensure deliverability. Short-Term Reserve cleared to meet

                 Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements will also count towards the

                 Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve Requirement.

          iii.   Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements.

                 The real-time Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements will be established as

                 necessary for a Reserve Zone for each Dispatch Interval to establish the required

                 Short-Term Reserve needed to be dispatched as Energy to restore flows within

                 limits following contingencies or abnormal events. Local Short-Term Reserve

                 Requirements will be derived from rampable Capacity needs, Energy schedules,

                 and local transmission constraints to ensure deliverability. Short-Term Reserve

                 cleared to meet Local Short-Term Reserve Requirements will also count towards

                 applicable Sub-Regional Short-Term Reserve Requirements and the Market-Wide

                 Short-Term Reserve Requirement.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       49.0.0


          The qualification requirements set forth below allow Regulating Reserve to serve as

   Spinning Reserve or Supplemental Reserve, and Spinning Reserve to serve as Supplemental

   Reserve. Accordingly, when it is more economic to do so, the Transmission Provider may make

   any of the following substitutions: Regulating Reserve for Spinning Reserve, Regulating

   Reserve for Supplemental Reserve, or Spinning Reserve for Supplemental Reserve.

   a.     Regulation Qualified Resources

          All Regulation Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must meet all of the requirements for Regulation Qualified Resources specified in this

   Section. Only Regulation Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Regulating Reserve in

   the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Regulation Qualified Resources in the

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the Energy and

   Operating Reserve Markets as Regulation Qualified Resources. All Resources registered as

   Regulation Qualified Resources must also be registered in the Energy and Operating Reserve

   Markets as Spin Qualified Resources and as Supplemental Qualified Resources, to allow cleared

   on-line Regulation Qualified Resources to supply Spinning Reserve or Supplemental Reserve

   through substitution of such Resources for Spin Qualified Resources or Supplemental Qualified

   Resources. All Regulation Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must be physically located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area or the entire

   Generation Resource must be pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and must

   remain pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model

   update, or the Resource must be an External Asynchronous Resource. All Regulation Qualified

   Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       49.0.0


   automatically responding to and alleviating frequency deviations through a speed governor or

   similar device in accordance with Applicable Reliability Standards. All Regulation Qualified

   Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of supplying

   Regulating Reserve for a minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes. All Regulation

   Qualified Resources supplying Regulation in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must be capable of receiving and responding to automatic control signals and must

   provide telemetered output data. Regulation Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) on-line and synchronized Generation Resources

   that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, (ii) External Asynchronous Resources, (iii) on-

   line and synchronized Demand Response Resources - Type II, and (iv) Electric Storage

   Resources with Commitment Status of Charge, Discharge, or Continuous. A Market Participant

   can disqualify a Regulation Qualified Resource from supplying Regulating Reserve on an Hourly

   basis should physical operating restrictions make the Resource unable to deploy Regulating

   Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for Regulating Reserve established in

   Section 40.2.3 (a) and the Business Practices Manuals.

   b.     Spin Qualified Resources

          All Spin Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   must meet all of the requirements for Spin Qualified Resources specified in this Section. Only

   Spin Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Spinning Reserve in the Real-Time Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market and as Supplemental Qualified Resources, to allow cleared Spin

   Qualified Resources to supply Supplemental Reserve. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Real-

   Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the Energy and Operating




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        49.0.0


   Reserve Markets as Spin Qualified Resources. All Resources registered as Regulation Qualified

   Resources will be registered as Spin Qualified Resources by default. All Spin Qualified

   Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be physically located

   within the MISO Balancing Authority Area or the entire Generation Resource must be pseudo-

   tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and must remain pseudo-tied into the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model update, or the Resource must be an

   External Asynchronous Resources. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market must comply with the requirements imposed by Applicable

   Reliability Standards for Resources supplying Spinning Reserve and, if applicable, frequency

   responsive Contingency Reserve. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying their cleared Spinning Reserve within

   the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period consistent with the Resource limit and ramping

   constraints as set forth in Schedule 29. All Spin Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying their cleared Spinning Reserve,

   consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule 29, for a

   minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes. All Spin Qualified Resources supplying

   Spinning Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must provide

   telemetered output data or, in the case of a Demand Response Resource must provide Metered

   data consistent with Attachment TT. Spin Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) on-line and synchronized Generation Resources

   that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, (ii) uncommitted Demand Response Resources

   - Type I that have a Minimum Interruption Duration of sixty (60) minutes or less in order to be




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                          49.0.0


   classified as Spin Qualified Resources, (iii) on-line and synchronized Demand Response

   Resources - Type II, , (iv) Electric Storage Resources with Commitment Status of Charge,

   Discharge, or Continuous, and (v) available External Asynchronous Resources. A Market

   Participant can disqualify a Spin Qualified Resource from supplying Spinning Reserve on an

   Hourly basis should physical operating restrictions make the Resource unable to deploy Spinning

   Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for Spinning Reserve established in Section

   40.2.3.b and the Business Practices Manuals. If a Resource is disqualified from providing

   Spinning Reserve, it is disqualified from providing Regulating Reserve.

             The Transmission Provider has the right to test Resources with Spin Qualified Resource

   status, or Resources seeking Spin Qualified Resource status, to determine whether the Spin

   Qualified Resource is capable of the deployment of Contingency Reserves in response to a

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period.

             In the event that the testing of a Resource is subsequent to a Spin Qualified Resource’s

   failure to respond to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction, such Resource shall receive

   the applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual

   Energy Injection of the Resource during the test or for the duration of the Resource's Minimum

   Run Time, whichever is longer. Additionally, the maximum amount of Spinning Reserve that

   can be offered from the Resource in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall

   be limited to the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Period achieved as a result of the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Instruction.




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        49.0.0


          In the event that the Transmission Provider initiates a test of a Spin Qualified Resource

   that is not associated with the Spin Qualified Resource’s failure to respond to a Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period, the

   Resource shall be committed by the Transmission Provider, shall receive the applicable LMP in

   the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual Energy Injection of the

   Resource. To the extent that the Resource fails to respond to the Contingency Reserve

   Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period during the test

   deployment, the maximum amount of Spinning Reserve that can be offered from the Resource in

   the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be limited to the actual amount of

   Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period

   achieved during the test until the Resource achieves a higher level of output in a subsequent test.

   Subsequent to a Spin Qualified Resource’s failure to respond to a Contingency Reserve

   Deployment Instruction, the Market Participant can also request a test to provide evidence to

   remove the limit.

   c.     Supplemental Qualified Resources

          All Supplemental Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must meet all of the requirements for Supplemental Qualified Resources specified in this

   Section. Only Supplemental Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Supplemental

   Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Supplemental Qualified

   Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be registered in the

   Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as Supplemental Qualified Resources. All Supplemental

   Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be physically




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        49.0.0


   located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area or the entire Generation Resource must be

   pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area and must remain pseudo-tied into the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next Network Model update, or the Resource must be

   an External Asynchronous Resource. All Supplemental Qualified Resources in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be capable of deploying one hundred percent

   (100%) of their cleared Contingency Reserve within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period. All Supplemental Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must be capable of deploying one hundred percent (100%) of their cleared Contingency

   Reserve for a minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes. All Supplemental Qualified

   Resources supplying Supplemental Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market must provide telemetered output data or, in the case of a Demand Response Resource,

   must provide Metered data consistent with Attachment TT. Supplemental Qualified Resources

   in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) on-line and

   synchronized Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, (ii) off-line

   and available Quick-Start Resources, (iii) uncommitted Demand Response Resources - Type I,

   (iv) on-line and synchronized Demand Response Resources - Type II, (v) available External

   Asynchronous Resources, and (vi) Electric Storage Resources with Commitment Status of

   Charge, Discharge, Continuous or Available.

          Off-Line Quick-Start Resources and Demand Response Resources - Type I must have a

   Minimum Run Time (or Minimum Interruption Duration, if a Demand Response Resource–Type

   I) of one hundred eighty (180) minutes or less in order to be classified as Supplemental Qualified

   Resources. A Market Participant can disqualify a Supplemental Qualified Resource from




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        49.0.0


   supplying Supplemental Reserve on an Hourly basis should physical operating restrictions make

   the Resource unable to deploy Supplemental Reserve in accordance with the product

   requirements for Supplemental Reserve established in Section 40.2.3.b and the Business

   Practices Manuals. If a Resource is disqualified from providing Supplemental Reserve, it is

   disqualified from providing Regulating Reserve and Spinning Reserve.

          The Transmission Provider shall have the right to test Resources with Supplemental

   Qualified Resource status, or Resources seeking Supplemental Qualified Resource status, to

   determine whether the Supplemental Qualified Resource is capable of the deployment of

   Contingency Reserves in response to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Period.

          In the event that the testing of a Resource is subsequent to a Supplemental Qualified

   Resource’s failure to respond to a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction, such Resource

   shall receive the applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for

   the Actual Energy Injection of the Resource during the test or for the duration of the Resource's

   Minimum Run Time, whichever is longer. Additionally, the maximum amount of Supplemental

   Reserve that can be offered from the Resource in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market shall be limited to the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Period achieved as a result of the Contingency Reserve

   Deployment Instruction.

          In the event that the Transmission Provider initiates a test of a Supplemental Qualified

   Resource that is not associated with the Supplemental Qualified Resource’s failure to respond to

   a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                        49.0.0


   Period, the Resource shall be committed by the Transmission Provider, shall receive the

   applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets for the Actual Energy

   Injection of the Resource, and is eligible for Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit

   pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.c. To the extent that the Resource fails to respond to the

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period during the test deployment, the maximum amount of Supplemental Reserve that can be

   offered from the Resource in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be

   limited to the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency

   Reserve Deployment Period achieved during the test until the Resource achieves a higher level

   of output in a subsequent test.

   d.     Resource Requirements for Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability

          All Resources eligible to provide Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability in

   the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be physically located within the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area, or the entire Generation Resource must be pseudo-tied into the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area and must remain pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing

   Authority Area until the next Network Model update, or the Resource must be an External

   Asynchronous Resource. All Resources eligible to provide Up Ramp Capability and/or Down

   Ramp Capability must be dispatchable for Energy in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market and capable of changing resource Energy output consistent with the Resource

   limit and ramping constraints set forth in Schedule 29 within the Ramp Capability Response

   Time. Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability eligibility in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) on-line and synchronized Generation Resources




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       49.0.0


   that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, (ii) available External Asynchronous

   Resources, (iii) on-line and synchronized Demand Response Resources - Type II, and (iv)

   Electric Storage Resources with Commitment Status of Charge, Discharge or Continuous.

   Market Participants may disqualify a Resource from supplying Up and Down Ramp Capability

   on an Hourly basis using the Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status.

   e.     Resource Requirements for Short-Term Reserve

          All Resources eligible to provide Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market must be physically located within the MISO Balancing Authority

   Area, or the entire Generation Resource must be Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority

   Area and must remain Pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area until the next

   Network Model update, or the Resource must be an External Asynchronous Resource. Market

   Participants may restrict a Resource from supplying Short-Term Reserve on an Hourly basis

   using the Resource Offer on-line or off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status, consistent with

   Module E-1 obligations.

          i.     Resource Requirements for on-line Resources providing Short-Term Reserve

                 All on-line Resources eligible to provide Short-Term Reserve must be

          dispatchable for Energy in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and

          capable of changing Resource Energy output consistent with the Resource limit and

          ramping constraints set forth in Schedule 29 within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment

          Period. Short-Term Reserve eligibility for on-line Resources in the Real-Time Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) on-line and synchronized Generation

          Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources or Intermittent Resources, (ii)




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                      49.0.0


          available External Asynchronous Resources; (iii) on-line and synchronized Demand

          Response Resources - Type II.

          ii.    Resource Requirements for off-line Resources providing Short-Term

                 Reserve

                 All Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market must meet all of the requirements for Off-Line Short-

          Term Reserve Qualified Resources specified in this Section. Only Off-Line Short-Term

          Reserve Qualified Resources will be permitted to supply Short-Term Reserve while off-

          line in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. All Off-Line Short-Term

          Reserve Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          must be registered in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as Off-Line Short-Term

          Reserve Qualified Resources. Short-Term Reserve eligibility for off-line Resources in

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be limited to (i) uncommitted

          Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources and Intermittent

          Resources, (ii) uncommitted Demand Response Resources - Type II; and (iii) Demand

          Response Resources - Type I. Uncommitted Generation Resources and Demand

          Response Resources - Type II, and Demand Response Resources-Type I, must be capable

          of achieving Economic Minimum Dispatch within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment

          Period and must have a Minimum Run Time (or Minimum Interruption Duration, if a

          Demand Response Resource - Type I) of two-hundred-forty (240) minutes or less in

          order to be classified as Offline Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources. All Off-Line

          Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating




                                                                          Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       49.0.0


          Reserve Market must be capable of deploying one-hundred percent (100%) of their

          cleared Short-Term Reserve within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period. All Off-

          Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market must be capable of deploying one-hundred percent (100%) of their

          cleared Short-Term Reserve for a minimum continuous duration of sixty (60) minutes.

          All Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources supplying Short-Term Reserve in

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market must provide telemetered output

          data for the Resource through the appropriate data communications equipment, as set

          forth in the Business Practices Manuals. A Market Participant can disqualify an Off-Line

          Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource from supplying Short-Term Reserve on an

          Hourly basis should physical operating restrictions make the Resource unable to deploy

          Short-Term Reserve in accordance with the product requirements for Short-Term Reserve

          established in Section 40.2.3.f.

                 The Transmission Provider shall have the right to test Resources with Off-Line

          Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource status, or Resources seeking Off-Line Short-

          Term Reserve Qualified Resource status, to determine whether each Resource is capable

          of the deployment of Short-Term Reserves in response to a Short-Term Reserve

          Deployment Instruction within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period.

                 In the event that the Transmission Provider initiates a test of an Off-Line Short-

          Term Reserve Qualified Resource, the Resource shall be committed by the Transmission

          Provider, shall receive the applicable LMP in the Real-Time Energy and Operating




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Resource Requirements for Operating Reserve
MODULES                                                                                       49.0.0


          Reserve Markets for the Actual Energy Injection of the Resource, and is eligible for Real-

          Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.c.

                 Before January 1, 2022, existing Resources shall self-certify as Off-Line Short-

          Term Reserve Qualified Resources. On or after January 1, 2022, certification as an Off-

          Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource for all new Resources shall require passing

          a Transmission Provider initiated test. A new Resource that tests and qualifies as a

          Supplemental Qualified Resource will not need to undergo additional testing to qualify as

          an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


   Generation Offer and Demand Response Resource-Type II Offer Rules in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

           Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market shall provide the information specified in this Section. Generation

   Offers and Demand Response Resource-Type II Offers shall be submitted in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for registered Generation Resources and registered

   Demand Response Resources-Type II. Generation Offers and Demand Response Resource-Type

   II Offers will remain in effect for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market until

   specifically superseded by subsequent Generation Offers or Demand Response Resource-Type II

   Offers. Each Market Participant may only submit a single Generation Offer or Demand

   Response Resource-Type II Offer for each individual Resource. Market Participants may submit

   new or revised Generation Resource Offers or Demand Response Resource–Type II Offers,

   including Self-Schedules (except for Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability), to the

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the operating

   Hour.

       a. Eligibility to Supply

           Generation Resources or Demand Response Resources - Type II may supply Energy in

           the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has

           certified the Resource is capable of responding to five (5) minute Dispatch Targets for

           Energy and has the appropriate telemetry installed. A Generation Resource or Demand

           Response Resource–Type II may not (i) offer Energy, (ii) offer and/or supply Operating




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          Reserve, (iii) offer and/or supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability, or (iv)

          offer and/or supply Short-Term Reserve unless such Resource has been included in the

          Network Model. A Market Participant’s Generation Resources or Demand Response

          Resources-Type II can supply Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental

          Reserve, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market if the Transmission Provider has certified that the Resource is a Regulation

          Qualified Resource, Spin Qualified Resource, Supplemental Qualified Resource and/or

          Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource, respectively. Market Participants that offer to

          supply Real-Time Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve,

          Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide

          the Offer information specified below.

       b. Required Generation Offer and Demand Response Resource - Type II Components

          Market Participants that submit Generation Offers and/or Demand Response Resource-

          Type II Offers shall include an Energy Offer curve, a Regulating Capacity Offer and a

          Regulating Mileage Offer (if a Regulation Qualified Resource), a Spinning Reserve Offer

          (if a Spin Qualified Resource), an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a

          Supplemental Qualified Resource but not a Spin Qualified Resource), an Off-Line

          Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Quick-Start Resource), an Off-Line Short-Term

          Reserve Offer (if an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource), a Start-Up Offer,

          a No-Load Offer, an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and an on-

          line and off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status Offer. Market Participants can

          provide Generation Offers and/or Demand Response Resource - Type II Offers for the




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          full MW range of their Operable Capacity, from the Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit

          to the Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit, or the DIR Feasibility Limit for Dispatchable

          Intermittent Resources, and may indicate, as part of the Offer, that the Generation

          Resource or Demand Response Resource – Type II is only available to be committed

          during an Emergency. Market Participants may submit a Generation Offer and/or

          Demand Response Resource-Type II Offer that contains zero dollar ($0) amounts for No-

          Load and Start-Up Offers, in which case only the Energy Offer curve, Regulating

          Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer (if applicable), Spinning Reserve Offer (if

          applicable), On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if applicable), Off-Line Supplemental

          Reserve Offer (if applicable), an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer (if applicable), Up

          and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and/or Short-Term Reserve Dispatch

          Status Offer will be considered by the market clearing process pursuant to Section 40.2.8.

          Any limits on the Offer over the full quantity (MW) range of the Operable Capacity must

          be consistent with Module D. A single Generation Offer or Demand Response Resource

          - Type II Offer may be submitted in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market for each Hour of the Operating Day for which the Market Participant is willing to

          sell Energy and Operating Reserve from a given Resource, except that the Forecast

          Maximum Limit submitted for a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource will be considered

          by the market clearing process pursuant to Section 40.2.5.b.xxxiii. The Transmission

          Provider shall maintain a Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Generation

          Offer and/or Demand Response Resource - Type II Offer for each Resource. These

          Offers are standing Offers and are maintained for the Real-Time Energy and Operating




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          Reserve Market independent of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          These Offers may be updated for a specific Hour up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the

          beginning of the Hour. Generation Resource and/or Demand Response Resource - Type

          II Offer components are as follows:

          i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve shall be expressed for each Hour

                 in $/MWh and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve

                 of up to ten (10) segments, shall be monotonically increasing, and shall cover the

                 full operating range, including the Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit and

                 Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit, or the DIR Feasibility Limit for

                 Dispatchable Intermittent Resources.

          ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. For DRR - Type II

                 Resources, the Regulation Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW and

                 shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3)

                 segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable to Regulation

                 Qualified Resources. For Generation Resources, the Regulating Capacity Offer

                 shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only

                 applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources. The Regulating Mileage Offer

                 shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to

                 Regulation Qualified Resources. If the Regulating Capacity Offer is negative,

                 then the Regulating Mileage Offer must $0/MW. In a given Hour, any Resource

                 with Regulating Reserve cleared in Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 Market must have the same Real-Time Regulating Mileage Offer as its Day-

                 Ahead Regulating Mileage Offer.

          iii.   Spinning Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II, the Spinning Reserve Offer shall

                 be expressed for each Hour in $/MW and shall consist of either a stepped or a

                 piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically

                 increasing and is only applicable to Spin Qualified Resources. For Generation

                 Resources, the Spinning Reserve Offer shall be a single value expressed for each

                 Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to Spin Qualified Resources.

          iv.    On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II, the On-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW and shall

                 consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3)

                 segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable to

                 synchronized Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not Spin Qualified

                 Resources. For Generation Resources, the On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer

                 shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only

                 applicable to synchronized Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not Spin

                 Qualified Resources.

          v.     Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II, the Off-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW and shall

                 consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3)

                 segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable to Resources

                 that are uncommitted Quick-Start Resources. For Generation Resources, the Off-




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                  Line Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour

                  in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to Resources that are uncommitted Quick-

                  Start Resources.

          vi.     Start-Up Offer. The Start-Up Offer shall be expressed for each Day in $/start. A

                  separate Start-Up Offer shall be submitted for hot, intermediate, and cold Start-Up

                  conditions.

          vii.    No-Load Offer. The No-Load Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/Hour.

          viii.   Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be specified for

                  the Generation Resource or Demand Response Resource - Type II at the time the

                  asset is registered. The Commercial Pricing Node shall be the same one used for

                  the Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          ix.     Hourly Ramp Rates. An Offer shall include (i) an Hourly Ramp Rate expressed

                  for each Hour in MW/minute to be used by RAC processes, (ii) an Hourly Single-

                  Directional-Up Ramp Rate expressed for each hour in MW/Minute to be used by

                  the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and the LAC process, (iii)

                  an Hourly Single-Directional-Down Ramp Rate expressed for each Hour in

                  MW/Minute to be used by the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                  and the LAC process, and iv) an Hourly Bi-Directional Ramp Rate expressed for

                  each Hour in MW/minute to be used by the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                  Reserve Market and the LAC process. If one or more of these ramp rates is not

                  submitted, the default ramp rates will be used. The default ramp rates are




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 specified during the asset registration process and can be updated by Market

                 Participant from the Market Portal.

          x.     Hourly Economic Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly Economic

                 Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Economic

                 Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is

                 specified during the asset registration process and can be updated by Market

                 Participant from the Market Portal.

          xi.    Hourly Economic Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall not be

                 used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the Real-Time

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is designated as a

                 Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR and committed by the Transmission Provider

                 prior to the Operating Day, unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or

                 planned outage or other physical operating restrictions; provided, however, that

                 Offers from Dispatchable Intermittent Resources shall not include an Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Limit. If no Hourly Economic Maximum Limit is

                 submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the

                 asset registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                 Market Portal.

          xii.   Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Emergency Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                 Emergency Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


                  default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                  by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

          xiii.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                  Emergency Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall not be

                  used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the Real-Time

                  Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is designated as a

                  Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR and committed by the Transmission Provider

                  prior to the Operating Day, unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or

                  planned outage or other physical operating restrictions; provided, however, that

                  Offers from Dispatchable Intermittent Resources shall not include an Hourly

                  Emergency Maximum Limit. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit is

                  submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the

                  asset registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                  Market Portal.

          xiv.    Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the Resource is

                  a Regulation Qualified Resource and subject to the transitional must offer

                  requirements specified under Sections 40.1.2.b, an Hourly Regulation Minimum

                  Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a

                  portion of the Regulating Capability of a Resource from the Real-Time Energy

                  and Operating Reserve Market if such Capacity is designated as a Capacity

                  Resource pursuant to RAR during the transitional must offer requirement period

                  specified under Section 40.1.2.b unless the Resource is unavailable due to a




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


                  forced or planned outage or the Resource is not qualified to supply Regulating

                  Reserve due to physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Regulation Minimum

                  Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified

                  during the asset registration process and can be updated by Market Participant

                  from the Market Portal.

          xv.     Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the Resource is

                  a Regulation Qualified Resource and subject to the transitional must offer

                  requirements specified under Sections 40.1.2.b, an Hourly Regulation Maximum

                  Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a

                  portion of the Capacity of a Resource from the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                  Reserve Market if such Capacity was used to calculate the Seasonal Accredited

                  Capacity of a designated Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR during the

                  transitional must offer requirement period specified under Section 40.1.2.b unless

                  the Resource is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or the Resource is

                  not qualified to supply Regulating Reserve due to physical operating restrictions.

                  If no Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                  used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                  be updated by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

          xvi.    Minimum Run Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Run Time, expressed

                  for each Day in Hours.

          xvii.   Maximum Run Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Run Time, expressed

                  for each Day in Hours.




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          xviii. Minimum Down Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Down Time,

                  expressed for each Day in Hours.

          xix.    Start-Up Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate, and cold Start-Up

                  Time, each of which is expressed for each Hour in Hours and minutes.

          xx.     Start-Up Notification Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate, and

                  cold Start-Up Notification Time, each of which is expressed for each Hour in

                  Hours and/or Minutes.

          xxi.    Maximum Off-Line Response Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum Off-

                  Line Response Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. This requirement applies

                  to Quick-Start Resources only. If no Hourly Maximum Off-Line Response Limit

                  is submitted, the default Maximum Off-Line Response Limit will be used. The

                  default Maximum Off-Line Response Limit is specified during the asset

                  registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the Market

                  Portal.

          xxii.   Maximum Start-Up Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum Start-Up Limit,

                  expressed for each Day in Starts per Day.

          xxiii. Maximum Daily Energy. An Offer shall include specification a Maximum Daily

                  Energy amount, if applicable, expressed for each Day in MWh.

          xxiv. Hot-to-Intermediate Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Intermediate Time,

                  expressed for each Day in Hours and/or minutes.

          xxv.    Hot-to-Cold Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Cold Time, expressed for

                  each Day in Hours and/or minutes.




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          xxvi. Commitment Status. An Offer shall include specification of a Commitment

                 Status for each Hour. Valid Commitment Status specifications include:

                 Economic, Must-Run, Emergency, Outage and Not Participating. An Economic

                 Commitment Status indicates the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit

                 the Resource on an economic basis for the Hour. A Must-Run Commitment

                 Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-committing the Resource for

                 the Hour. An Emergency Commitment Status indicates that the Resource is an

                 AME Resource and that the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the

                 Resource only under an Emergency condition for the Hour. The Emergency

                 Commitment Status will not be available to any Resource unless it has satisfied

                 the conditions set forth in Section 39.2.5.b.xxvi. An Outage Commitment Status

                 indicates the Resource is not available for commitment during the Hour due to a

                 planned or forced outage. A Not Participating Commitment Status indicates the

                 Market Participant will not operate a Resource that is otherwise available. The

                 Not Participating Commitment Status will not be available prior to the Operating

                 Day to any Resource that has all or a portion of its Capacity designated as a

                 Capacity Resource nor will the Not Participating Commitment Status be available

                 once the Resource has been committed in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market, any RAC process, or the LAC process.

          xxvii. Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an Energy

                 Dispatch Status for Energy. Valid Energy Dispatch Status specifications include:

                 Economic and Self-Schedule. An Economic Energy Dispatch Status indicates




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Energy on the

                 Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the

                 Market Participant is self-scheduling Energy on the Resource for the Hour. The

                 Energy Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are committed for the

                 Hour. DRR – Type II is not allowed to designate Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch

                 Status.

          xxviii. Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of a

                 Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating Reserve. Valid Regulating

                 Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule, Not

                 Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Regulating Reserve Dispatch

                 Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                 clear Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule

                 Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-

                 scheduling Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified

                 Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to

                 provide Regulating Reserve for an Hour. A Not Participating Regulating Reserve

                 Dispatch Status indicates the Market Participant will not provide Regulating

                 Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide Regulating Reserve.

                 The Not Participating Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status will not be available

                 prior to the Operating Day to any Resource that has all or a portion of its Capacity

                 designated as a Capacity Resource for the first 180 days of the Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market. The Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status only applies




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) registered as Regulation

                 Qualified Resources.

          xxix. Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of a

                 Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid Spinning Reserve

                 Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not

                 Qualified. An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                 Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Spinning Reserve on

                 the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Market Participant is self-scheduling Spinning Reserve on the

                 Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an

                 Hour. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not Qualified for a

                 specific Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating Reserve Dispatch

                 Status is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in that Hour. For a Resource

                 not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market Participant must select a Not

                 Participating Commitment Status pursuant to Section 40.2.5.b.xxiii of the Tariff

                 in order to not participate in providing Spinning Reserve. The Spinning Reserve

                 Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and

                 ii) are registered as Spin Qualified Resources.

          xxx.   On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                 Supplemental Reserve. Valid On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An

                 Economic On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                 Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Supplemental Reserve

                 on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is committed. A Self-Schedule On-

                 Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant

                 is self-scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the

                 Resource is committed and not a Spin Qualified Resource. A Not Qualified On-

                 Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not

                 qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve for an Hour as a committed Resource.

                 For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market Participant must

                 select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to Section 40.2.5.b.xxiii of

                 the Tariff in order to not participate in providing On-Line Supplemental Reserve.

                 The On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources

                 that are i) committed for the Hour, ii) registered as Supplemental Qualified

                 Resources and, iii) not Spin Qualified Resources or have been disqualified by the

                 Market Participant as Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.

          xxxi. Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for Off-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve. Valid Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                 specifications include: Economic, Emergency, Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and

                 Not Participating. An Economic Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is

                 uncommitted. An Emergency Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-

                 Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is

                 uncommitted and all available Resources with an Economic Commit Status have

                 been committed. A Self-Schedule Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                 Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-scheduling Off-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is

                 uncommitted. A Not Qualified Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental

                 Reserve for an Hour as an uncommitted Quick-Start Resource. A Not

                 Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the

                 Market Participant will not provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve on an

                 uncommitted Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide Off-Line

                 Supplemental Reserve. The Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve

                 Dispatch Status will not be available to any Resource in an Hour where the

                 Resource cleared Off-Line Supplemental Reserve as an uncommitted Resource in

                 the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The Not Participating

                 Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status will not be available to any

                 Resource that has all or a portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity

                 Resource. The Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


                 Resources that are uncommitted for the Hour and registered as Quick-Start

                 Resources.

          xxxii. Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status which applies

                 to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability for each Hour. Valid Up

                 and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and

                 Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Up

                 Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A

                 Not Participating Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that

                 the Resource shall not be cleared to supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp

                 Capability for an Hour.

                 The Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies to Resources

                 that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) have offered an Energy Dispatch Status

                 of Economic for the Hour.

          xxxiii. Forecast Maximum Limit. A Market Participant may submit a Forecast

                 Maximum Limit for each Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, expressed for each

                 Dispatch Interval in MW, to be used in the real-time SCED algorithm to establish

                 the Economic Maximum Dispatch of the Resource for each Dispatch Interval.

                 Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Market Participant shall submit a Forecast

                 Maximum Limit for each Hybrid Resource registered as a Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource, expressed for each Dispatchable Interval in MW, to be




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 used in the real-time SCED algorithm to establish the Economic Maximum

                 Dispatch for the Hybrid Resource for each Dispatch Interval. The Market

                 Participant-submitted Forecast Maximum Limit will be used for the applicable

                 Dispatch Interval if it meets the following criteria: (A) the Forecast Maximum

                 Limit must be submitted less than 30 minutes prior to the end of the Dispatch

                 Interval; (B) the submitted Forecast Maximum Limit must be less than or equal to

                 the DIR Feasibility Limit, plus a technical margin, as set forth in the Business

                 Practices Manuals; (C) the Forecast Maximum Limit must be submitted prior to

                 the execution of the SCED algorithm for the Dispatch Interval; (D) the submitted

                 Forecast Maximum Limit must reflect the most likely forecast outcome, and be

                 directly derived from an accurate and statistically unbiased forecast, using the

                 most current forecast data available for the specific dispatch interval, consistent

                 with the requirements of this Tariff, the Business Practices Manuals, and in

                 accordance with Good Utility Practice, with said forecast from which the limit is

                 derived being directly derived from the actual known physical capabilities and

                 characteristics of the Resource, actual generation data for the Resource, weather

                 information specific to the physical location of the Resource, and weather

                 prediction models for the physical location of the Resource, all relevant as of the

                 time of submission.

                 The Transmission Provider may determine that the Market Participant’s Forecast

                 Maximum Limits are persistently inaccurate by comparing them with the




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 Transmission Provider-calculated Forecast Maximum Limits and/or actual

                 generation data over a period of time.

                 In the event that the Market Participant-submitted Forecast Maximum Limit does

                 not meet the aforementioned criteria or the Transmission Provider determines the

                 Market Participant’s Forecast Maximum Limits to be persistently inaccurate, the

                 Transmission Provider will use either a Transmission Provider-calculated

                 Forecast Maximum Limit, or the State Estimator output for the Resource, in the

                 SCED algorithm, whichever is deemed appropriate by the Transmission Provider

                 using standards set forth in the Business Practices Manuals; except, if the Market

                 Participant-submitted Forecast Maximum Limits is for a Hybrid Resource

                 registered as a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, the State Estimator output for

                 the Hybrid Resource will be used in the SCED algorithm. To the extent that the

                 Transmission Provider-calculated Forecast Maximum Limit is used in the case, it

                 must meet the following criteria: (A) the Forecast Maximum Limit must be

                 calculated less than 30 minutes prior to the end of the Dispatch Interval; (B) the

                 calculated Forecast Maximum Limit must be less than or equal to the DIR

                 Feasibility Limit, plus a technical margin, as set forth in the Business Practices

                 Manuals; (C) the Forecast Maximum Limit must be calculated prior to the

                 execution of the SCED algorithm for the Dispatch Interval; (D) the calculated

                 Forecast Maximum Limit must reflect the most likely forecast outcome, and be

                 directly derived from an accurate and statistically unbiased forecast, using the

                 most current forecast data available for the specific dispatch interval, consistent




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


                 with the requirements of this Tariff, the Business Practices Manuals, and in

                 accordance with Good Utility Practice, with said forecast from which the limit is

                 derived being directly derived from the actual known physical capabilities and

                 characteristics of the Resource, actual generation data for the Resource, weather

                 information specific to the physical location of the Resource, and weather

                 prediction models for the physical location of the Resource, all relevant as of the

                 time of submission.

                 If the Transmission Provider determines the Market Participant’s Forecast

                 Maximum Limits to be persistently inaccurate and instead uses the Transmission

                 Provider-calculated Forecast Maximum Limit or the State Estimator output for the

                 Resource, that practice will continue indefinitely until the Market Participant can

                 provide consistently accurate forecasts, as determined by the Transmission

                 Provider.

          xxxiv. DIR Feasibility Limit. A DIR Feasibility Limit must be associated with each

                 Dispatchable Intermittent Resource and specified during the Transmission

                 Provider’s asset registration process.

          xxxv. Maximum Daily Regulation Up Deployment. A Maximum Daily Regulation

                 Up Deployment is associated with each DRR-Type II Resource, if applicable, and

                 is expressed for each Day in MWh. If no daily Maximum Daily Regulation Up

                 Deployment is submitted, the default Maximum Daily Regulation Up Deployment

                 specified during the asset registration process will be used.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


          xxxvi. Maximum Daily Regulation Down Deployment. A Maximum Daily

                 Regulation Down Deployment is associated with each DRR-Type II Resource, if

                 applicable, and is expressed for each Day in MWh. If no daily Maximum Daily

                 Regulation Down Deployment is submitted, the default Maximum Daily

                 Regulation Down Deployment specified during the asset registration process will

                 be used.

          xxxvii. Maximum Daily Contingency Reserve Deployment. A Maximum Daily

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment is associated with each DRR-Type II Resource,

                 if applicable, and is expressed for each Day in MWh. If no daily Maximum Daily

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment is submitted, the default Maximum Daily

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment specified during the asset registration process

                 will be used.

          xxxviii. Fast Ramping Resource Offer. An Offer shall include specification of

                 whether the Resource is eligible or ineligible to be treated as a Fast Ramping

                 Resource for each Hour. A valid Fast Ramping Resource Offer shall state a

                 specification of either “Yes” or “No.” “Yes” indicates that the Resource could

                 receive fast AGC signals while deploying Regulating Reserves, and “No”

                 indicates that the Resource will not accept fast AGC signals while deploying

                 Regulating Reserves.

                 (a) Eligibility at Start of Each Hour. At the beginning of each Hour, a Regulation

                       Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource shall be




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                          Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          68.0.0


                       deemed eligible to receive fast AGC signals regardless of its performance in

                       the last Dispatch Interval of the preceding Hour.

                 (b) Eligibility During Each Dispatch Interval. A Regulation Qualified Resource

                       that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource for a particular Hour shall be

                       eligible to receive fast AGC signals in the first Dispatch Interval of that Hour,

                       and in any ensuing Dispatch Interval of that Hour which is immediately

                       preceded by a Dispatch Interval when the Resource met or exceeded the Fast

                       Ramping Resource Performance Threshold in the Fast Ramping Resource

                       Performance Test during that preceding Dispatch Interval.

                 (c) Treatment When Ineligible to Receive Fast AGC Signals. If a Regulation

                       Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource for a particular

                       Hour fails to meet the Fast Ramping Resource Performance Threshold in the

                       Fast Ramping Resource Performance Test during a particular Dispatch

                       Interval, other than the last Dispatch Interval of that Hour, the Resource shall

                       receive only regular AGC signals in the next Dispatch Internal. Even when

                       receiving regular AGC signals in a Dispatch Interval, the Resource shall

                       continue undergoing the Fast Ramping Resource Performance Test in that

                       Dispatch Interval, and if it meets the Fast Ramping Resource Performance

                       Threshold, shall be eligible to receive fast AGC signals in the following

                       Dispatch Interval.

          xxxix. Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly Neutral

                 Zone Upper Limit, expressed in percentage of Hourly Maximum Energy Storage




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


                  Level. A single Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit value of less than or equal to

                  100 should be used. Resources that are not Use Limited Resources should use a

                  value of 100. This limit value will be used to compute the Fast Ramping Resource

                  AGC signal while sending the Regulating Resource signal.

          xl.     Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly Neutral

                  Zone Lower Limit, expressed in percentage of Hourly Maximum Energy Storage

                  Level. A single Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit value of greater than or equal

                  to 0, and less than Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit should be used. Resources

                  that are not Use Limited Resources should use a value of 0. This limit value will

                  be used to compute the Fast Ramping Resource AGC signal while sending the

                  Regulating Resource signal.

          xli.    Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer. For DRR - Type II Resources, the Off-

                  Line Short-Term Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour

                  and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to

                  three (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable to

                  Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources. For Generation Resources, the

                  Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer shall be a single value expressed for each

                  Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Qualified

                  Resources.

          xlii.   On-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                  specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status which applies to

                  on-line Resources for each Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                          Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          68.0.0


                   specifications include: Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Short-

                   Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                   authorized to economically clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the

                   Hour. A Not Participating Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                   Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for an Hour.

          xliii.   Off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                   specification of an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status which applies to

                   off-line Resources for each Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status

                   specifications include: Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Short-

                   Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                   authorized to economically clear Short-Term Reserve on the Resource for the

                   Hour. A Not Participating Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                   Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for an Hour.

          xliv.    Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit. An Offer shall

                   include a Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response Limit, expressed for

                   each Hour in MW. This requirement applies to Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                   Qualified Resources only. If no hourly Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                   Response Limit is submitted, the default Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                   Response Limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                   registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the Market

                   Portal. The Maximum Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Response limit must be

                   greater than or equal to the Resource’s Economic Minimum Dispatch.




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


       c. Ramp Rate Curves

          A Market Participant may specify a Single-Directional-Up Ramp Rate curve, a Single-

          Directional-Down Ramp Rate curve and a Bi-Directional Ramp Rate curve for use in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and each curve may include up to ten

          (10) linear segments. Such ramp rate curves may be updated for a specific Hour no less

          than thirty (30) minutes prior to the beginning of the Hour. The participant may activate

          the use of such ramp rate curves for a specific Hour no less than thirty (30) minutes prior

          to the beginning of the Hour. If activated, such ramp rate curves will be used in lieu of

          the Hourly Single-Directional-Up Ramp Rate, the Hourly Single-Directional Down Ramp

          Rate and the Hourly Bi-Directional Ramp Rate for a specific Resource during a specific

          Hour in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. If such ramp rate curves

          are activated, the LAC process will use the information from the ramp rate curves for a

          specific Resource during a specific Hour as specified in the Business Practices Manuals.

       d. Limit and Ramp Rate Priority

          Default operating limits for Resources provided to the Transmission Provider during

          asset registration and can be overridden by hourly Resource limits (limits applicable to an

          Operating Hour). Furthermore, hourly limits can be overridden as necessary within an

          Hour by the Transmission Provider at the request of the Market Participant to reflect real-

          time changes in the operational capabilities associated with Generation Resources and/or

          Demand Response Resources – Type II. Default ramp rates for Resources provided to

          the Transmission Provider during asset registration can be overridden by hourly ramp

          rates and hourly ramp rates can be overridden by ramp rate curves. Furthermore, all




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          ramp rates can be overridden as necessary by the Transmission Provider at the request of

          the Market Participant within an Hour to reflect changes in the operational capabilities

          associated with Generation Resources and/or Demand Response Resources – Type II.

          All specified Resource limits, ramp rates and other physical operating parameters are

          subject to investigation by the Independent Market Monitor pursuant to provisions set

          forth in Module D.

       e. Values in Offers

          The values in Offers representing the non-price information in Section 40.2.5.b shall

          reflect the actual known physical capabilities and characteristics of the Generation

          Resources and/or Demand Response Resources - Type II on which the Offer is based

          except that the Emergency Maximum Limit, Economic Maximum Limit and Forecast

          Maximum Limit may, at the discretion of the Market Participant, be reduced by an

          amount equal to any Capacity associated with the Resource that is i) not designated as a

          Capacity Resource, ii) not being used to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

          Capability, or Short-Term Reserve to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, iii) not being used to provide Capacity in any RAC process or the LAC process,

          iv) not being used to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, or Short-

          Term Reserve to the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and iii) not being

          used to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve

          to any other party or entity. For a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, in addition to

          reflecting the actual known physical capabilities and characteristics of the Resource, the

          Forecast Maximum Limit shall also meet the criteria set forth in Section 40.2.5.b.xxxiii.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         68.0.0


          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the values in Offers representing the non-price

          information identified in Section 40.2.5.b shall reflect any operating limitation, such as

          thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations,

          provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

          reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual known physical

          capabilities and characteristics of the Generation Resource and/or Demand Response

          Resource– Type II on which the Offer is based.

       f. Combined Cycle Units

          A Generation Offer for a Generation Resource with combined cycle capability shall be

          submitted as either an independent Offer for each combustion turbine (CT) and steam

          turbine (ST) with an alternate steam or thermal source or an aggregate Offer for the

          combined cycle combustion turbine (CCCT) unit, not both. Once the combined cycle

          Generation Resource is committed, either as part of the Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, any RAC processes or the LAC process, subsequent

          Generation Offers submitted must be submitted using the same option, either independent

          Offer or Aggregate Offer that was used in the commitment of the combined cycle

          Generation Resource.

       g. Jointly Owned Generation Resource

          Each Market Participant may submit a Generation Offer, including Start-up and No-Load

          Offers for their respective ownership of a Jointly Owned Generation Resource as long as

          each share of the Jointly Owned Generation Resource is modeled as an independent

          Resource in the network and commercial models. Each share of a Jointly Owned




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                       Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       68.0.0


          Generation Resource will be considered an independent Generation Resource and

          therefore, a Market-Participant may Pseudo-Tie an entire share of a Jointly Owned

          Generation Resource into the MISO Balancing Authority Area for the purpose of

          providing Operating Reserve to the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets. The

          Transmission Provider will send one Dispatch Instruction signal, to the Market

          Participant designated as operator by the owners of the Jointly Owned Generation

          Resource for operations purposes only.

       h. Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and Floors.

          The following Offer price caps and floors will apply to Generation Resources and

          Demand Response Resource – Type II Offers (if applicable) in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market:

          i.     Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh; applied to non-Verified Energy

                 Offers, non-Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and non-Verified

                 Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers. Energy Offers, the

                 components of Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and the components of

                 Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer

                 Soft Price Cap, submitted before the close of the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserves Market, but not verified by the Independent Market Monitor

                 until after market clearing, will be used in the determination of Real-Time

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19 of this

                 Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Offer and DRR-II Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        68.0.0


          ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy Offers,

                  Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and Verified Emergency

                  Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers. Verified Energy Offers, the

                  components of Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and the

                  components of Verified Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers,

                  above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap will be used in the determination of Real-

                  Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19

                  of this Tariff.

          iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh for Generation Resources and

                  Net Benefits Price Threshold for Demand Response Resources – Type II.

          iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour

          v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

          vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

          vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

          viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW

          ix.     Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

          x.      Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                  Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                      49.0.0


   Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market

          Market Participants that intend to supply Energy and Contingency Reserve through a

   Demand Response Resource - Type I in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

   shall provide the information specified in this Section. Demand Response Resource - Type I

   Offers shall be submitted in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for

   registered Demand Response Resources - Type I. Demand Response Resource - Type I Offers

   will remain in effect for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market until specifically

   superseded by subsequent Demand Response Resource - Type I Offers. Each Market Participant

   may only submit a single Demand Response Resource - Type I Offer for each individual

   Demand Response Resource - Type I. Market Participants may submit new or revised Demand

   Response Resource – Type I Offers to the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market up

   to thirty (30) minutes prior to the operating Hour.

       a. Eligibility to Supply

          Demand Response Resources - Type I may supply Energy in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has certified the Resource is

          capable of responding to real-time demand reduction instructions and has data

          communication equipment installed that can provide a minimum of hourly demand data

          for the Resource for Hours in which the Demand Response Resource – Type I that has

          been committed for Energy, as set forth in the Business Practices Manuals. A Market

          Participant’s Demand Response Resources - Type I can supply Spinning Reserve in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                    49.0.0


          certified that the Resource is a Spin Qualified Resource, Supplemental Reserve in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has

          certified that the Resource is a Supplemental Qualified Resource, or Short-Term Reserve

          in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has

          certified that the Resource is a Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resource. Demand

          Response Resources – Type I may not supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp

          Capability because they are not required to respond to five (5) minute Dispatch Targets

          for Energy. Market Participants that offer to supply Real-Time Energy, Spinning

          Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide the Offer

          information specified below.

       b. Required Demand Response Resource - Type I Offer Components

          For Demand Response Resources - Type I that are Spin Qualified Resources, a Market

          Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a Spinning Reserve Offer, a Supplemental

          Reserve Offer, a Shut-Down Offer, an Hourly Curtailment Offer, an Off-Line Short-Term

          Reserve Offer, a Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency Reserve status and

          an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. For Demand Response Resources -

          Type I that are not Spin Qualified Resources but which qualify as a Supplemental

          Qualified Resource, a Market Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a

          Supplemental Reserve Offer, a Shut-Down Offer, an Hourly Curtailment Offer, an Off-

          Line Short-Term Reserve Offer, and an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. For

          Demand Response Resources – Type I that are neither Spin Qualified Resources nor

          Supplemental Qualified Resources, but which qualify as Short-Term Reserve Qualified




                                                                           Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                     49.0.0


          Resources, a Market Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a Shut-Down Offer,

          an Hourly Curtailment Offer, an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer, and an off-line

          Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. For Demand Response Resources - Type I that are

          not Spin Qualified Resources, Supplemental Qualified Resources, or Short-Term Reserve

          Qualified Resources, a Market Participant may submit an Energy Offer curve, a Shut-

          Down Offer and an Hourly Curtailment Offer for supply of Energy only. A Market

          Participant may indicate, as part of the Offer, that the Demand Response Resource –

          Type I is only available to be committed for Energy during an Emergency or that it is

          only available to be cleared for Contingency Reserve during an Emergency. A single

          Demand Response Resource - Type I Offer may be submitted in the Real-Time Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market for each Hour of the Operating Day for which the Market

          Participant is willing to sell Energy, Contingency Reserve, and/or Short-Term Reserve

          for a given Resource. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market Offer for each Demand Response Resource - Type I. These

          Offers are standing Offers and are maintained for the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market independent of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          These Offers may be updated for a specific Hour up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the

          beginning of the Hour. Demand Response Resource - Type I Offer components are as

          follows:

          i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve shall be expressed for each Hour

                 in $/MWh and shall consist of a stepped, single segment representation at the

                 Targeted Demand Reduction Level.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                    49.0.0


          ii.    Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be expressed for

                 each Hour in $/MW and shall consist of either a stepped or piecewise linear Offer

                 curve of up to three (3) segments and shall be monotonically increasing. The

                 Spinning Reserve Offer only applies if the Demand Response Resource - Type I

                 is a Spin Qualified Resource.

          iii.   Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be

                 expressed for each Hour in $/MW and shall consist of either a stepped or

                 piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments and shall be

                 monotonically increasing. The Supplemental Reserve Offer only applies if the

                 Demand Response Resource - Type I is a Supplemental Qualified.

          iv.    Shut-Down Offer. The Shut-Down Offer is expressed for the Day in $/shut-

                 down.

          v.     Hourly Curtailment Offer. The Hourly Curtailment Offer is expressed for each

                 Hour in $/Hour.

          vi.    Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency Reserve Status. An Offer

                 shall include a Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency Reserve status,

                 expressed for each Day. The Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency

                 Reserve status shall specify whether the Demand Response Resource – Type I

                 will be cleared and deployed in the same manner as Resources clearing and

                 deploying on-line Spinning or Supplemental Reserve, or whether the Demand

                 Response Resource – Type I will be cleared and deployed in the same manner as

                 off-line Resources clearing and deploying Supplemental Reserves. If a Demand




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                     49.0.0


                  Response Resource – Type I elects to clear and deploy in the same manner as

                  Resources clearing and deploying on-line Spinning or Supplemental Reserve, any

                  Resource commitments made for Contingency Reserve Deployment events will

                  not be SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation. If a Demand Response Resource –

                  Type I elects to clear and deploy in the same manner as off-line Resources

                  clearing and deploying Supplemental Reserves, any Resource commitments made

                  for Contingency Reserve Deployment events will be SCUC Instructed Hours of

                  Operation. If no daily Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency

                  Reserve status is submitted, the Demand Response Resource – Type I

                  Contingency Reserve status specified during the asset registration process will be

                  used.

          vii.    Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be specified for

                  the Demand Response Resource - Type I. The Commercial Pricing Node cannot

                  be an Interface, Load Zone, or Hub, but may be an Aggregate Price Node. The

                  Commercial Pricing Node can include an aggregation of Elemental Pricing Nodes

                  or portions of Elemental Pricing Nodes all within a single Local Balancing

                  Authority Area and based on the injection EPNodes for demand response

                  registered by the Market Participant.

          viii.   Targeted Demand Reduction Level. An Offer for a Demand Response

                  Resource - Type I shall include a Targeted Demand Reduction Level, expressed

                  for each Hour in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the

                  Capacity Resource from the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                  Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                      49.0.0


                  such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR and

                  committed by the Transmission Provider prior to the Operating Day, unless such

                  portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or other physical

                  operating restrictions. If no Hourly Targeted Demand Reduction Level is

                  submitted, the default Targeted Demand Reduction Level specified during the

                  asset registration process will be used.

          ix.     Minimum Interruption Duration. An Offer shall include a Minimum

                  Interruption Duration, expressed for each Day in Hours.

          x.      Maximum Interruption Duration. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                  Interruption Duration, expressed for each Day in Hours.

          xi.     Minimum Non-Interruption Interval. An Offer shall include a Minimum Non-

                  Interruption Interval, expressed for each Day in Hours.

          xii.    Maximum Interruption Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum Interruption

                  Limit, expressed for each Day in number of interruptions per Day.

          xiii.   Maximum Daily Energy. An Offer shall include specification of a Maximum

                  Daily Energy amount, if applicable, expressed for each Day in MWh.

          xiv.    Shut-Down Time. An Offer shall include a Shut-Down Time, expressed for each

                  Hour in Hours and/or Minutes.

          xv.     Shut-Down Notification Time. An Offer shall include a Shut-Down Notification

                  Time, expressed in Hours and/or Minutes.

          xvi.    Energy Commitment Status. An Offer shall include specification of an Energy

                  Commitment Status for each Hour. Valid Energy Commitment Status




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                     49.0.0


                  specifications include: Economic, Emergency and Not Participating. An

                  Economic Commitment Status indicates the Transmission Provider is authorized

                  to commit the Resource to provide Energy for the Hour on an economic basis. An

                  Emergency Commitment Status indicates that the Resource is an AME Resource

                  and that the Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the Resource to

                  provide Energy for the Hour under Emergency conditions only. The Emergency

                  Commitment Status will not be available to any Resource unless it has satisfied

                  the conditions set forth in Section 39.2.5.b.xxvi. A Not Participating

                  Commitment Status indicates the Market Participant will not provide Energy for

                  the Hour from the Resource, but the Resource could be available for Contingency

                  Reserve depending on the Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status and/or Supplemental

                  Reserve Dispatch Status, as described below. For a Demand Response Resource

                  – Type I that is a designated Capacity Resource, the Not Participating

                  Commitment Status may only be selected if such Resource is unavailable due to a

                  forced or planned outage or other physical operating restrictions.

          xvii.   Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of a

                  Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid Spinning Reserve

                  Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule, Emergency,

                  Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch

                  Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                  clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning

                  Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-scheduling




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                    49.0.0


                 Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. An Emergency Spinning

                 Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Transmission Provider is authorized to clear

                 Spinning Reserve on the Resource only under Emergency Conditions.

                 A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is

                 not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an Hour. A Not Participating

                 Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market Participant will not

                 provide Spinning Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide

                 Spinning Reserve. For a Demand Response Resource – Type I that is a

                 designated Capacity Resource, the Not Participating Spinning Reserve Dispatch

                 Status may only be selected if such Resource is unavailable due to a forced or

                 planned outage or other physical operating restrictions.

                 The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Demand Response

                 Resources – Type I that are i) uncommitted for the Hour and ii) registered as Spin

                 Qualified Resources.

          xviii. Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of

                 a Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for Supplemental Reserve. Valid

                 Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-

                 Schedule, Emergency, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic

                 Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                 authorized to economically clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the

                 Hour. A Self-Schedule Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                 Market Participant is self-scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                    49.0.0


                 the Hour. An Emergency Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the

                 Transmission Provider is authorized to clear Supplemental Reserve on the

                 Resource only under Emergency Conditions.

                 A Not Qualified Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                 Resource is not qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve for an Hour. A Not

                 Participating Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market

                 Participant will not provide Supplemental Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise

                 qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve. For a Demand Response Resource –

                 Type I that is a designated Capacity Resource, the Not Participating Supplemental

                 Reserve Dispatch Status may only be selected if such Resource is unavailable due

                 to a forced or planned outage or other physical operating restrictions. The

                 Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Demand Response

                 Resources – Type I that are i) uncommitted for the Hour and ii) registered as

                 Supplemental Qualified.

          xix.   Maximum Daily Contingency Reserve Deployment. A Maximum Daily

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment is associated with each DRR-Type I Resource,

                 if applicable, and is expressed for each day in MW. If no daily Maximum Daily

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment is submitted, the default Maximum Daily

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment specified during the asset registration process

                 will be used.

          xx.    Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer. The Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer

                 shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall consist of either a




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                    49.0.0


                 stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, and shall be

                 monotonically increasing. An Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer only applies if

                 the Demand Response Resource -Type I is an Off-Line Short-Term Reserve

                 Qualified Resource.

          xxi.   Off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of an off-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. Valid Short-

                 Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and Not

                 Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that

                 the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Short-Term

                 Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Short-Term Reserve

                 Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-

                 Term Reserve for an Hour. The Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status only applies

                 to Demand Response Resources-Type I that i) are uncommitted for the Hour and

                 ii) are registered as Short-Term Reserve Qualified Resources.

       c. Reserved.

       d. Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and Floors

          The following Offer price caps will apply to Demand Response Resource – Type I Offers

          in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

          i.     Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MW, applied to non-Verified Energy

                 Offers, non-Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and non-Verified

                 Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers. Energy Offers, the

                 components of Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and the components of




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff                 Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                     49.0.0


                 Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer

                 Soft Price Cap, submitted before the close of the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market, but not verified by the Independent Market Monitor

                 until after market clearing, will be used in the determination of Real-Time

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19 of this

                 Tariff, provided that the cost verification process for DRR – Type I Offers above

                 that threshold shall be different and suitable for such types of Resources, as

                 determined and implemented by the Independent Market Monitor.

          ii.    Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy Offers,

                 Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and Verified Emergency

                 Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers. Verified Energy Offers, the

                 components of Verified Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers, and the

                 components of Verified Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers,

                 above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap will be used in the determination of Real-

                 Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19

                 of this Tariff, provided that the cost verification process for DRR – Type I Offers

                 above that threshold shall be different and suitable for such types of Resources, as

                 determined and implemented by the Independent Market Monitor.

          iii.   Energy Offer Price Floor: Net Benefits Price Threshold.

          iv.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

          v.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

          vi.    Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                     40.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff              Demand Response Resource-Type I Offer Rules in Real-Time Ene
MODULES                                                                                  49.0.0


          vii.   Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour




                                                                     Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                      External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         48.0.0


   External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market:

          Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve from an External Asynchronous

   Resource in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall provide the information

   specified in this Section. External Asynchronous Resource Offers shall be submitted in the Real-

   Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for qualified External Asynchronous

   Resources. External Asynchronous Resource Offers shall remain in effect for the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market until specifically superseded by subsequent External

   Asynchronous Resource Offers. Each Market Participant shall only submit a single External

   Asynchronous Resource Offer for each individual External Asynchronous Resource. Market

   Participants may submit new or revised External Asynchronous Resource Offers, including Self-

   Schedules, to the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market up to thirty (30) minutes

   prior to the operating Hour.

          a.      Eligibility to Supply

          A Market Participant’s External Asynchronous Resources may supply Energy in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has

          certified the Resource is capable of responding to five (5) minute Dispatch Targets for

          Energy and has the appropriate telemetry installed as set forth in the Business Practices

          Manuals. A Market Participant’s External Asynchronous Resources may supply

          Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, and/or Short-Term

          Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission




                                                                         Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


          Provider has certified that the Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, Spin

          Qualified Resource, Supplemental Qualified Resource, or Short-Term Reserve Qualified

          Resource, respectively. Market Participants that offer to supply Real-Time Energy,

          Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability,

          Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide the Offer information

          specified below for each individual External Asynchronous Resource.

          b.     Required External Asynchronous Resource Offer Components

          All External Asynchronous Resources can submit an Offer for Energy, an Up and Down

          Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer, and an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch

          Status Offer. For External Asynchronous Resources that are Regulation Qualified

          Resources, a Market Participant may submit a Regulating Capacity Offer and a

          Regulating Mileage Offer. For External Asynchronous Resources that are Spin Qualified

          Resources, a Market Participant may submit a Spinning Reserve Offer. For External

          Asynchronous Resources that are not Spin Qualified Resources but which qualify as a

          Supplemental Qualified Resource, a Market Participant may submit a Supplemental

          Reserve Offer. Market Participants can provide External Asynchronous Resource Offers

          for the full MW range of their Operable Capacity. A single External Asynchronous

          Resource Offer may be submitted in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market for each Hour of the Operating Day for a given External Asynchronous Resource.

          The Transmission Provider shall maintain a Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market Offer for each External Asynchronous Resource. These Offers are standing

          Offers and are maintained for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                     External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        48.0.0


          independent of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. These Offers may

          be updated for a specific Hour up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the beginning of the

          Hour. Offer components are as follows:

                 i.      Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve shall be expressed for each

                 Hour in $/MWh and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer

                 curve of up to ten (10) segments, shall be monotonically increasing, and shall

                 cover the full operating range. The Energy Offer curve may include negative

                 MW and/or price segments.

                 ii.     Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. The

                 Regulating Capacity Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in

                 $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to External Asynchronous Resources that are

                 Regulation Qualified Resources. The Regulating Mileage Offer shall be a single

                 value expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to Regulation

                 Qualified Resources. If the Regulating Capacity Offer is negative, then the

                 Regulating Mileage Offer must be $0/MW. In a given Hour, any Resource with

                 Regulating Reserve cleared in Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 must have the same Real-Time Regulating Mileage Offer as its Day-Ahead

                 Regulating Mileage Offer.

                 iii.    Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be a single

                 value expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to External

                 Asynchronous Resources that are Spin Qualified Resources.




                                                                         Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 iv.    Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Supplemental Reserve Offer shall be

                 a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to

                 External Asynchronous Resources that are Supplemental Qualified Resources but

                 not Spin Qualified Resources.

                 v.     Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be

                 specified for the External Asynchronous Resource. The Commercial Pricing

                 Node shall not be an Interface, Load Zone, or Hub. The Commercial Pricing

                 Node shall be the same one used for the Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market.

                 vi.    Hourly Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include (i) an Hourly Ramp Rate,

                 expressed for each Hour in MW/minute to be used by RAC processes, (ii) an

                 Hourly Single-Directional-Up Ramp Rate, expressed for each hour in

                 MW/Minute to be used by the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 and the LAC process, (iii) an Hourly Single-Directional-Down Ramp Rate

                 expressed for each Hour in MW/Minute to be used by the Real-Time Energy

                 Operating Reserve Market and the LAC process, and iv) an Hourly Bi-Directional

                 Ramp Rate expressed for each Hour in MW/minute to be used by the Real-Time

                 energy and Operating Reserve Market and the LAC process. If one or more of

                 such ramp rates is not submitted, the default ramp rates specified during the asset

                 registration process will be used and can be updated by Market Participant from

                 the Market Portal.




                                                                         Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 vii.    Hourly Economic Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The

                 default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                 by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 viii.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the

                 Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, an Hourly Regulation Maximum

                 Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Regulation Maximum Limit

                 is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during

                 the asset registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                 Market Portal.

                 ix.     Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include, if the

                 Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, an Hourly Regulation Minimum

                 Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit

                 is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during

                 the asset registration process and can be updated by Market Participant from the

                 Market Portal.

                 x.      Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Emergency Maximum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                 Emergency Maximum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The

                 default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                 by Market Participant from the Market Portal.




                                                                          Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 xi.     Hourly Economic Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Economic Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                 Economic Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The

                 default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                 by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xii.    Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Emergency Minimum Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                 Emergency Minimum Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The

                 default limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                 by Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xiii.   Availability Status. An Offer shall include an Availability Status to

                 indicate if the External Asynchronous Resource is available for participation in

                 the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market during the Hour. If the

                 Availability Status is set to Unavailable, the External Asynchronous Resource

                 will be unavailable to provide Energy and Operating Reserve in the Real-Time

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market during the Hour. If the Availability Status

                 is set to Available, then the External Asynchronous Resource will be available to

                 provide Energy and Operating Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market during the Hour.

                 xiv.    Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an

                 Energy Dispatch Status for Energy. Valid Energy Dispatch Status specifications

                 include: Economic and Self-Schedule. An Economic Energy Dispatch Status




                                                                         Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                         40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                   External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      48.0.0


                 indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear

                 Energy on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Market-Participant is self-scheduling Energy on the Resource

                 for the Hour.

                 xv.    Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating Reserve.

                 Valid Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic,

                 Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Regulating

                 Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                 economically clear Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-

                 Schedule Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market

                 Participant is self-scheduling Regulating Reserve on the Resource for the Hour.

                 A Not Qualified Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource

                 is not qualified to provide Regulating Reserve for an Hour. A Not Participating

                 Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market Participant will not

                 provide Regulating Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide

                 Regulating Reserve. The Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to

                 Resources that are registered as Regulation Qualified Resources.

                 xvi.   Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                 of a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid Spinning

                 Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule and

                 Not Qualified. An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Spinning Reserve on

                 the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Market Participant is self-scheduling Spinning Reserve on the

                 Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                 indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an

                 Hour. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not Qualified for a

                 specific Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating Reserve Dispatch

                 Status is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in that Hour. The Spinning

                 Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are registered as Spin

                 Qualified Resources.

                 xvii.   Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of a Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for Supplemental

                 Reserve. Valid Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include:

                 Economic, Self-Schedule and Not Qualified. An Economic Supplemental

                 Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                 economically clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-

                 Schedule Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market

                 Participant is self-scheduling Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour.

                 A Not Qualified Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                 Resource is not qualified to provide Supplemental Reserve for an Hour. The

                 Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that i) are

                 registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources and, iii) are not Spin Qualified




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 Resources or have been disqualified by the Market Participant as Spin Qualified

                 Resources for the Hour.

                 xviii. Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall

                 include specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status which

                 applies to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability for each Hour.

                 Valid Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status specifications include:

                 Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down Ramp Capability

                 Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                 economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp Capability on the

                 Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Up and Down Ramp Capability

                 Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall not be cleared to supply Up

                 Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability for an Hour. The Up and Down

                 Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that have offered an

                 Energy Dispatch Status of Economic for the Hour.

                 xix.   Fast Ramping Resource Offer. An Offer shall include specification of

                 whether the Resource is eligible or ineligible to be treated as a Fast Ramping

                 Resource for each Hour. A valid Fast Ramping Resource Offer shall state a

                 specification of either “Yes” or “No.” “Yes” indicates that the Resource could

                 receive fast AGC signals while deploying Regulating Reserves, and “No”

                 indicates that the Resource will not accept fast AGC signals while deploying

                 Regulating Reserves.




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                              40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                        External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                           48.0.0


                 (a) Eligibility at Start of Each Hour. At the beginning of each Hour, a Regulation

                       Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource shall be

                       deemed eligible to receive fast AGC signals regardless of its performance in

                       the last Dispatch Interval of the preceding Hour.

                 (b) Eligibility During Each Dispatch Interval. A Regulation Qualified Resource

                       that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource for a particular Hour shall be

                       eligible to receive fast AGC signals in the first Dispatch Interval of that Hour,

                       and in any ensuing Dispatch Interval of that Hour which is immediately

                       preceded by a Dispatch Interval when the Resource met or exceeded the Fast

                       Ramping Resource Performance Threshold in the Fast Ramping Resource

                       Performance Test during that preceding Dispatch Interval.

                 (c) Treatment When Ineligible to Receive Fast AGC Signals. If a Regulation

                       Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource for a particular

                       Hour fails to meet the Fast Ramping Resource Performance Threshold in the

                       Fast Ramping Resource Performance Test during a particular Dispatch

                       Interval, other than the last Dispatch Interval of that Hour, the Resource shall

                       receive only regular AGC signals in the next Dispatch Internal. Even when

                       receiving regular AGC signals in a Dispatch Interval, the Resource shall

                       continue undergoing the Fast Ramping Resource Performance Test in that

                       Dispatch Interval, and if it meets the Fast Ramping Resource Performance

                       Threshold, shall be eligible to receive fast AGC signals in the following

                       Dispatch Interval.




                                                                            Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 xx.     Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Neutral Zone Upper Limit, expressed in percentage of Hourly Maximum Energy

                 Storage Level. A single Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit value of less than or

                 equal to 100 should be used. Resources that are not Use Limited Resources should

                 use a value of 100. This limit value will be used to compute the Fast Ramping

                 Resource AGC signal while sending the Regulating Resource signal.

                 xxi.    Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                 Neutral Zone Lower Limit, expressed in percentage of Hourly Maximum Energy

                 Storage Level. A single Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit value of greater than or

                 equal to 0, and less than Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit should be used.

                 Resources that are not Use Limited Resources should use a value of 0. This limit

                 value will be used to compute the Fast Ramping Resource AGC signal while

                 sending the Regulating Resource signal.

                 xxii.   On-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                 specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for each Hour.

                 Valid Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and

                 Not Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                 that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Short-Term

                 Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Short-Term Reserve

                 Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall not be cleared to supply Short-

                 Term Reserve for an Hour.




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                                40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                          External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                             48.0.0


          c.       Values in Offers. The values in Offers representing the non-price information

          identified in Section 40.2.7B.b shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities and

          characteristics of the External Asynchronous Resource on which the Offer is based.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the values in Offers representing the non-price

          information identified in Section 40.2.7.b shall reflect any operating limitation, such as

          thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations,

          provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

          reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual known physical

          capabilities and characteristics of the External Asynchronous Resource on which the

          Offer is based.

          d.       Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and

          Floors

          The following Offer price cap will apply to External Asynchronous Resource Offers in

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

                   i.       Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh, applied to non-Verified

                            Energy Offers. Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap,

                            submitted before the close of the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                            Reserves Market, but not verified by the Independent Market Monitor

                            until after market clearing, will be used in the determination of Real-Time

                            Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19

                            of this Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7
FERC Electric Tariff                    External Asynchronous Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                 ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy

                         Offers. Verified Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap

                         will be used in the determination of Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                         Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19 of this Tariff.

                 iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh

                 iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour

                 v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                 vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

                 vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                 viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW




                                                                        Effective On: January 26, 2023
MISO                                   40.2.7A
FERC Electric Tariff                RESERVED
MODULES                                 41.0.0




                       Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


   Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market

           Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserves, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or on-line Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market on Electric Storage Resources shall provide the information

   specified in this Section. Electric Storage Resource Offers shall be submitted in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for registered Electric Storage Resources. Electric

   Storage Resource Offers will remain in effect for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market until specifically superseded by subsequent Electric Storage Resource Offers. Each

   Market Participant may only submit a single Electric Storage Resource Offer for each individual

   Resource. Market Participants may submit new or revised Electric Storage Resource Offers,

   including Self-Schedules (except for Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability), to the

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the operating

   Hour.

           a.     Eligibility to Discharge and/or Charge

                  Electric Storage Resources may Discharge (sell) or Charge (purchase) Energy in

                  the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission

                  Provider has certified the Resource is capable of responding to five (5) minute

                  Dispatch Targets for Energy and has the appropriate telemetry installed, including

                  telemetry for Energy Storage Level. An Electric Storage Resource may not (i)

                  offer to Charge and/or Discharge Energy, (ii) offer and/or supply Operating

                  Reserve, (iii) offer and/or supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability,




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                 or (iv) offer and/or supply on-line Short-Term Reserve unless such Resource has

                 been included in the Network Model. A Market Participant’s Electric Storage

                 Resource can supply Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental

                 Reserve, and/or on-line Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market if the Transmission Provider has certified that the

                 Resource is a Regulation Qualified Resource, Spin Qualified Resource,

                 Supplemental Qualified Resource, and/or on-line Short-Term Qualified Resource,

                 respectively. Market Participants that offer to transact Real-Time Energy,

                 Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp

                 Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or on-line Short-Term Reserve shall

                 provide the Offer information specified below.

          b.     Required Electric Storage Resource Offer Components

                 Market Participants that submit Electric Storage Resource Offers shall include an

                 Energy Offer Curve, a Regulating Capacity Offer and a Regulating Mileage Offer

                 (if a Regulation Qualified Resource), a Spinning Reserve Offer (if a Spin

                 Qualified Resource), an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Supplemental

                 Qualified Resource but not a Spin Qualified Resource), an Off-Line Supplemental

                 Reserve Offer (if a Quick-Start Resource), a Start-Up Offer, a No-Load Offer, and

                 an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status Offer. Market Participants can

                 provide Electric Storage Resource Offers for the full MW range of their Operable

                 Capacity, from: (i) the Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit to the Hourly

                 Emergency Maximum Charge Limit in Charge Commitment Status; (ii) the




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                 Hourly Emergency Minimum Discharge Limit to the Hourly Emergency

                 Maximum Discharge Limit in Discharge and Available Commitment Status; (iii)

                 the Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit to the Hourly Emergency

                 Maximum Discharge Limit in Continuous Commitment Status; and may indicate,

                 as part of the Offer, that the Electric Storage Resource, can be committed during

                 an Emergency in either Emergency Charge or Emergency Discharge. Market

                 Participants may submit an Electric Storage Resource Offer that contains zero

                 dollar ($0) amounts for No-Load and Start-Up Offers, in which case only the

                 Charge Offer curve and/or Discharge Offer curve, Regulating Capacity Offer and

                 Regulating Mileage Offer (if applicable), Spinning Reserve Offer (if applicable),

                 On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if applicable), Off-Line Supplemental

                 Reserve Offer (if applicable), and/or Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch

                 Status Offer will be considered by the market clearing process pursuant to Section

                 40.2.8. Any limits on the Electric Storage Resource Offer covering the full energy

                 storage capability of the Resource must be consistent with Module D. A single

                 Electric Storage Resource Offer may be submitted in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market for each Hour of the Operating Day for which the

                 Market Participant is willing to sell Operating Reserve and/or purchase Energy to

                 Charge and/or Discharge to sell Energy from a given Resource. The Transmission

                 Provider shall maintain a Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 Electric Storage Resource Offer for each Electric Storage Resource. These Offers

                 are standing Offers and are maintained for the Real-Time Energy and Operating




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                 Reserve Market independent of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Market. These Offers may be updated for a specific Hour up to thirty (30)

                 minutes prior to the beginning of the Hour. Electric Storage Resource Offer

                 components are as follows:

                 i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve to either Charge and/or

                        Discharge shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MWh and shall consist of

                        either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to ten (10)

                        segments, shall be monotonically increasing, and shall cover the full

                        operating range, including Emergency range, as applicable to the

                        Commitment Status of the Electric Storage Resource.

                 ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. The Regulating

                        Capacity Offer shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer

                        curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is

                        only applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources expressed for each

                        Hour in $/MW/Hour. The Regulating Mileage Offer shall be a single value

                        expressed for each Hour in $/MW and is only applicable to Regulation

                        Qualified Resources. If the Regulating Capacity Offer is negative, then the

                        Regulating Mileage Offer must be $0/MW. In a given Hour, any Resource

                        with Regulating Reserve cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

                        Reserve Market must have the same Real-Time Regulating Mileage Offer

                        as its Day-Ahead Regulating Mileage Offer.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


                 iii.    Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be expressed

                         for each Hour in $/MW and shall consist of either a stepped or a piecewise

                         linear Offer curve of up to three (3) segments, shall be monotonically

                         increasing and is only applicable to Spin Qualified Resources.

                 iv.     On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The On-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW/Hour and shall

                         consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three

                         (3) segments, shall be monotonically increasing and is only applicable to

                         Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not Spin Qualified Resources.

                 v.      Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Off-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in $/MW and shall consist

                         of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to three (3)

                         segments, shall be monotonically increasing to Discharge and is only

                         applicable to Resources that are Quick-Start Resources and have

                         Commitment Status as Available.

                 vi.     Start-Up Offer. The Start-Up Offer shall be expressed for each Day in

                         $/start. A separate Start-Up Offer shall be submitted for hot, intermediate,

                         and cold Start-Up conditions.

                 vii.    No-Load Offer. The No-Load Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                         $/Hour.

                 viii.   Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be specified

                         for the Electric Storage Resource at the time the asset is registered. The




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                         Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       36.0.0


                       Commercial Pricing Node shall be the same one used for the Resource in

                       the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

                 ix.   Hourly Charge Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include (i) an Hourly Charge

                       Ramp Rate expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. This Charge Ramp

                       Rate value will be used in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

                       Market, RAC and LAC process while ramping up or down for Energy and

                       for regulating up or down between corresponding Hourly Economic

                       Minimum Charge Limit and zero (0). If no Hourly Charge Ramp Rate is

                       submitted, the default Charge Ramp Rate will be used. The default Charge

                       Ramp Rate is specified during the asset registration process and can be

                       updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 x.    Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include (i) an Hourly

                       Discharge Ramp Rate expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. This

                       Discharge Ramp Rate value will be used in the Real-Time Energy and

                       Operating Reserve Market, RAC and LAC process while ramping up or

                       down for Energy and for regulating up or down between corresponding

                       Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit and zero (0). If no Hourly

                       Discharge Ramp Rate is submitted, the default Discharge Ramp Rate will

                       be used. The default Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate is specified during the

                       asset registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from

                       the Market Portal.




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                       When the Commitment Status is Continuous, the Ramp Rate value would

                       be determined based on which side of zero (0) the resource is getting

                       dispatched. If the Electric Storage Resource is being dispatched between

                       zero (0) and the corresponding Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge

                       Limit then the Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate is used, conversely, if the

                       Electric Storage Resource is being dispatched between zero (0) and the

                       corresponding Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit then the Hourly

                       Charge Ramp Rate is used for Electric Storage Resource to ramp up or

                       down for Energy and for regulating up or down.

                 xi.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit if the Resource is a Regulation

                       Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no Hourly

                       Regulation Minimum Charge Limit is submitted, the default limit will be

                       used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration process

                       and can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. The

                       Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit shall be greater than or equal

                       to the Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit, and shall be less than or

                       equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit. This limit will be

                       used as the minimum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                       Charge, Emergency Charge or Continuous for Electric Storage Resources

                       qualified and committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is

                       Discharge or Emergency Discharge, this limit will not be used.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                            40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                             Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


                 xii.    Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit if the Resource is a

                         Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit is submitted, the default limit

                         will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration

                         process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market

                         Portal. The Hourly Regulation Maximum Charge Limit shall be less than

                         or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit, shall be less

                         than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit, and shall

                         be greater than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Minimum Charge Limit.

                         This limit will be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the

                         Commitment Status is Charge or Emergency Charge for ESRs qualified

                         and committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Available,

                         Emergency Discharge, Discharge or Continuous, this limit will not be

                         used.

                 xiii.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit if the Resource is a

                         Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit is submitted, the default

                         limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                         registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                         Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit shall be




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


                        greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit,

                        and shall be less than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum

                        Discharge Limit. This limit will be used as the minimum MW dispatch

                        limit when the Commitment Status is Available, Discharge or Emergency

                        Discharge for Electric Storage Resources qualified and committed for

                        Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Charge, Emergency Charge

                        or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xiv.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit if the Resource is a

                        Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                        Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit is submitted, the default

                        limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                        registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                        Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Maximum Discharge Limit shall be

                        less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit,

                        shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum

                        Discharge Limit, and shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly

                        Regulation Minimum Discharge Limit. This limit will be used as the

                        maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Available,

                        Emergency Discharge, Discharge or Continuous for ESRs qualified and

                        committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Charge or

                        Emergency Charge, this limit will not be used.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


                 xv.     Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Maximum Energy Storage Level, expressed for each Hour in MWh. If no

                         Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level is submitted, the default value

                         specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                 xvi.    Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Minimum Energy Storage Level, expressed for each Hour in MWh. If no

                         Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Level is submitted, the default value

                         specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                 xvii.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall

                         include an Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy Storage Level, expressed

                         for each Hour in MWh. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy

                         Storage Level is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                         registration process will be used.

                 xviii. Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Storage Level. An Offer shall

                         include an Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Storage Level, expressed

                         for each Hour in MWh. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy

                         Storage Level is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                         registration process will be used.

                 xix.    Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW. If no Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                         default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limits shall be less than or equal to

                        zero (0). This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic

                        Minimum Charge Limit. This limit will be used when the Commitment

                        Status is Charge or Emergency Charge as the maximum MW dispatch

                        limit. When the Commitment Status is Available, Emergency Discharge,

                        Discharge or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xx.    Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a

                        Resource from the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                        such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR,

                        unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or

                        other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Economic Maximum

                        Discharge Limit is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                        registration process will be used. This value shall be greater than or equal

                        to the Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit. This limit will be

                        used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                        Discharge, Available, Emergency Discharge or Continuous. When the

                        Commitment Status is Charge or Emergency Charge, this limit will not be

                        used.

                 xxi.   Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                            40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                             Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


                         MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                         default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                         This value shall be less than or equal to zero (0). This limit will be used as

                         the minimum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Charge

                         Emergency Charge or Continuous. When the Commitment Status is

                         Available, Discharge or Emergency Discharge, this limit will not be used.

                 xxii.   Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limit is submitted, the

                         default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                         Hourly Economic Minimum Discharge Limits shall be greater than or

                         equal to zero (0). This limit will be used when the Commitment Status is

                         Discharge, Emergency Discharge or Available as minimum MW dispatch

                         limit. When the Commitment Status is Charge, Emergency Charge or

                         Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xxiii. Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                         default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                         Hourly Emergency Maximum Charge Limits shall be less than or equal to

                         zero (0). This value shall be greater than or equal to Hourly Economic

                         Maximum Charge Limit. This limit will be used as the maximum MW




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                             40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                              Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                            36.0.0


                        dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Emergency Charge or

                        Charge under Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment

                        Status is Available, Discharge, Emergency Discharge or Continuous, the

                        limit will not be used.

                 xxiv. Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour

                        in MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a

                        Resource from the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                        such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR,

                        unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or

                        other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum

                        Discharge Limit is submitted, the default value specified during the asset

                        registration process will be used. This value shall be greater than or equal

                        to the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit. This limit will be

                        used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                        Emergency Discharge, Discharge, Available or Continuous under

                        Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment Status is Charge

                        or Emergency Charge, this limit will not be used.

                 xxv.   Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit is submitted, the

                        default value specified during the asset registration process will be used.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                             40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                              Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                            36.0.0


                        This value shall be less than or equal to zero (0). This limit will be used

                        when the Commitment Status is Emergency Charge, Charge, and

                        Continuous as the minimum MW dispatch limit under Emergency

                        operating conditions. When Commitment Status is Discharge Available or

                        Emergency Discharge, this limit will not be used.

                 xxvi. Hourly Emergency Minimum Discharge Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Emergency Minimum Discharge Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Discharge Limit is

                        submitted, the default value specified during the asset registration process

                        will be used. This value shall be greater than or equal to zero (0). This

                        limit will be used when the Commitment Status is Emergency Discharge,

                        Discharge, or Available as minimum MW dispatch limit. When

                        Commitment Status is Charge, Emergency Charge or Continuous, this

                        limit will not be used.

                 xxvii. Hourly Electric Storage Resource Efficiency Factor. An Offer shall

                        include specification of an Hourly Electric Storage Resource Efficiency

                        Factor for each Hour, expressed as a percentage. If no Hourly Electric

                        Storage Resource Efficiency Factor is submitted, the default value

                        specified during the asset registration process will be used.

                 xxviii. Minimum Discharge Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Discharge

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                 xxix. Maximum Discharge Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Discharge

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxx.   Minimum Down Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Down Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxxi. Minimum Charge Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Charge Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxxii. Maximum Charge Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Charge

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxxiii. Maximum Off-Line Response Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                        Off-Line Response Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. This

                        requirement applies to Quick-Start Resources only. If no Hourly

                        Maximum Off-Line Response Limit is submitted, the default Maximum

                        Off-Line Response Limit will be used. The default Maximum Off-Line

                        Response Limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                        be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                        xxxiv. Commitment Status. Because ESRs manage their State of Charge,

                        and are required to provide their Commitment Status for each market

                        interval as described herein, the Transmission Provider’s Security

                        Constrained Unit Commitment engine does not make commitments of

                        ESRs. An Offer shall include specification of a Commitment Status.

                        Valid Commitment Status specifications include: Charge, Discharge,

                        Continuous, Emergency Charge, Emergency Discharge, Available, Outage




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        and Not Participating. An Available Commitment Status indicates the

                        Transmission Provider is authorized to commit the Resource on an

                        economic basis for the Hour using Offer parameters associated with the

                        Commitment Status of Discharge. A Charge, Discharge, or Continuous

                        Commitment Status indicates that the Market Participant is self-

                        committing the Resource for the Hour. An Emergency Charge or

                        Emergency Discharge Commitment Status indicates that the Resource is

                        an AME Resource and that the Transmission Provider is authorized to

                        commit the Resource only under an Emergency condition for the Hour.

                        The Emergency Charge or Emergency Discharge Commitment Status will

                        not be available to any Resource unless it has satisfied the conditions set

                        forth in Section 39.2.5.b.xxvi. An Outage Commitment Status indicates

                        the Resource is not available for commitment during the Hour due to a

                        planned or forced outage. A Not Participating Commitment Status

                        indicates the Market Participant will not operate a Resource that is

                        otherwise available. The Not Participating Commitment Status will be

                        available to an Electric Storage Resource that has all or a portion of its

                        capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used consistent

                        with Module E-1 obligations.

                 xxxv. Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an Energy

                        Dispatch Status for Energy. Valid Energy Dispatch Status specifications

                        include: Economic, Self-Schedule, and Not Participating. An Economic




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                        authorized to economically clear Energy on the Resource for the Hour. A

                        Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant

                        is Self-Scheduling Energy on the Resource for the Hour and will follow

                        the Self-Scheduling Rules defined in section 39.1.2. The Not Participating

                        Energy Dispatch Status will be available to an Electric Storage Resource

                        in Continuous Commitment Status and that has all or a portion of its

                        capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used consistent

                        with Module E-1 obligations. The Energy Dispatch Status only applies to

                        Resources that are committed for the Hour.

                 xxxvi. Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                        of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating Reserve. Valid

                        Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic,

                        Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic

                        Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission

                        Provider is authorized to economically clear Regulating Reserve on the

                        Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Regulating Reserve Dispatch

                        Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Regulating

                        Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to

                        provide Regulating Reserve for an Hour. A Not Participating Regulating

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market Participant will not provide




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        Regulating Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide

                        Regulating Reserve. The Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status only applies

                        to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) registered as

                        Regulation Qualified Resources. The Resource should have sufficient

                        Energy Storage Level to clear Regulating Reserves or honor Self-

                        Scheduled Regulation volume for the Hour.

                 xxxvii. Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of

                        a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid Spinning

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule

                        and Not Qualified. An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                        clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule

                        Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is

                        Self-Scheduling Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not

                        Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is

                        not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an Hour. The Spinning

                        Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not Qualified for a specific

                        Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status

                        is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in that Hour. The Resource

                        should have sufficient Energy Storage Level to clear Spinning Reserves or

                        honor Self-Scheduled Spinning Reserves volume for the Hour.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                        Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to

                        Section 40.2.7B.b.xxxiv of the Tariff in order to not participate in

                        providing Spinning Reserve. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status only

                        applies to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) are

                        registered as Spin Qualified Resources.

                 xxxviii. On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve. Valid On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not

                        Qualified. An Economic On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                        clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource

                        is committed. A Self-Schedule On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling

                        Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is

                        committed. A Not Qualified On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Supplemental

                        Reserve for an Hour as a committed Resource. The Resource should have

                        sufficient Energy Storage Level to clear Supplemental Reserves or honor

                        Self-Scheduled Supplemental Reserves for the Hour.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                        For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                        Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to

                        Section 40.2.7B.b.xxxiv of the Tariff in order to not participate in

                        providing On-Line Supplemental Reserve. The On-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed

                        for the Hour, ii) registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources and, iii)

                        not registered as Spin Qualified Resources or have been disqualified by

                        the Market Participant as Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.

                 xxxix. Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve. Valid Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status specifications include: Economic, Emergency, Self-Schedule, Not

                        Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                        authorized to economically clear Off-Line Supplemental Reserve on the

                        Resource for the Hour when the Resource’s Commitment Status is

                        Available.

                        An Emergency Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-

                        Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour when the

                        Resource’s Commitment Status is Available and all available Resources

                        with Economic or Available Commitment Status have been committed. A




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                         40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                          Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


                       Self-Schedule Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                       that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Off-Line Supplemental

                       Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Off-Line

                       Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not

                       qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve for an Hour.

                       A Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                       indicates the Market Participant will not provide Off-Line Supplemental

                       Reserve on a Resource that has a Commitment Status of Available and

                       that is otherwise qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve.

                       The Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status will

                       be available to an Electric Storage Resource that has all or a portion of its

                       capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be used consistent

                       with Module E-1 obligations. The Off-Line Supplemental Reserve

                       Dispatch Status only applies to Resources when their Commitment Status

                       is Available for the Hour and they are registered as Quick-Start Resources.

                 xl.   Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                       specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status which

                       applies to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability. Valid

                       Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status specifications include:

                       Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down Ramp

                       Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                       authorized to economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


                        Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Up and

                        Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall

                        not be cleared to supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability

                        for an Hour.

                 xli.   On-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status which

                        applies to on-line Resources for each Hour. Valid on-line Short-Term

                        Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and Not

                        Participating. An Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                        that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Short-

                        Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating on-line

                        Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall not

                        be cleared to supply on-line Short-Term Reserve for an Hour.

          c.     Ramp Rate Curves

                 A Market Participant may specify a Charge Ramp Rate curve and Discharge

                 Ramp Rate curve for use in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 and each curve may include up to ten (10) linear segments. Such ramp rate curves

                 may be updated for a specific Hour no less than thirty (30) minutes prior to the

                 beginning of the Hour. The Market Participant may activate the use of such ramp

                 rate curves for a specific Hour no less than thirty (30) minutes prior to the

                 beginning of the Hour. If activated, such ramp rate curves will be used in lieu of

                 the Hourly Charge Ramp Rate and/or the Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate for a




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                            Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


                 specific Resource during a specific Hour in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market. When the Commitment Status is Continuous, the Ramp Rate

                 curve would be determined based on which side of zero (0) the Resource is

                 getting dispatched. If the Electric Storage Resource is being dispatched between

                 zero (0) and the corresponding Hourly Discharge Maximum Limit, then the

                 Hourly Discharge Ramp Rate curve is used, conversely, if the Electric Storage

                 Resource is being dispatched between zero (0) and the corresponding Hourly

                 Economic Minimum Charge Limit, then the Charge Ramp Rate curve will be

                 used for the Electric Storage Resource to ramp up or down for Energy and for

                 regulating up or down.

          d.     Limit and Ramp Rate Priority

                 Default operating limits for Resources shall be provided to the Transmission

                 Provider during asset registration and can be overridden by hourly Resource

                 limits (limits applicable to an Operating Hour). Furthermore, hourly limits can be

                 overridden as necessary within an Hour by the Transmission Provider at the

                 request of the Market Participant to reflect real-time changes in the operational

                 capabilities associated with Electric Storage Resources. Default Charge and

                 Discharge Ramp Rate for Electric Storage Resources provided to the

                 Transmission Provider during asset registration can be overridden by hourly

                 Charge and Discharge Ramp Rate, and hourly Charge and Discharge Ramp Rate

                 can be overridden by Charge and Discharge Ramp Rate curve. Furthermore, all

                 Charge and Discharge Ramp Rates can be overridden as necessary by the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                            40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                             Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


                 Transmission Provider at the request of the Market Participant within an Hour to

                 reflect changes in the operational capabilities associated with Electric Storage

                 Resources. All specified Resource limits, ramp rates and other physical operating

                 parameters are subject to investigation by the Independent Market Monitor

                 pursuant to provisions set forth in Module D.

          e.     Values in Offers

                 The values in Offers representing the non-price information identified in Section

                 40.2.7B.b shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities and characteristics

                 of the Electric Storage Resource on which the Offer is based. Notwithstanding

                 the foregoing, the values in Offers representing the non-price information

                 identified in Section 40.2.7B.b shall reflect any operating limitation, such as

                 thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations,

                 provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

                 reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual known physical

                 capabilities and characteristics of the Electric Storage Resource on which the

                 Offer is based.

          f.     Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and

                 Floors.

                 The following Offer Price Caps will apply to Electric Storage Resources in the

                 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

                           i.      Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh; applied to non-

                                   Verified Energy Offers. Energy Offers, above the Energy Offer




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7B
FERC Electric Tariff                           Electric Storage Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


                               Soft Price Cap, submitted before the close of the Real-Time

                               Energy and Operating Reserves Market, but not verified by the

                               Independent Market Monitor until after market clearing, will be

                               used in the determination of Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                               Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19 of this Tariff.

                       ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified

                               Energy Offers. Verified Energy Offers above the Energy Offer

                               Hard Price Cap will be used in the determination of Real-Time

                               Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section

                               40.2.19 of this Tariff.

                       iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh

                       iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour

                       v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                       vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour

                       vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour

                       viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                           40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                      Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market

           Market Participants that intend to supply Energy, Operating Reserves, Up Ramp

   Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or On-Line Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market on Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources shall

   provide the information specified in this Section. Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource

   Offers shall be submitted in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market only for

   registered Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources. Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource

   Offers will remain in effect for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market until

   specifically superseded by subsequent Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers. Each

   Market Participant may only submit a single Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer for

   each individual Resource. Market Participants may submit new or revised Distributed Energy

   Aggregated Resource Offers, including Self-Schedules (except for Short-Term Reserve, Up

   Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability), to the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the operating Hour. If any DER that is part of a DEAR

   has restriction(s) within the operating Hour, the DERA must update its Offer to reflect such

   restriction(s).

           a.        Eligibility to Inject and/or Withdraw

                     Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources may inject (sell) or withdraw

                     (purchase) Energy in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the

                     Transmission Provider has certified the Resource is capable of responding to five

                     (5) minute Dispatch Targets for Energy and has the appropriate telemetry




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                 installed. A Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource may not (i) offer to

                 withdraw and/or inject Energy, (ii) offer and/or supply Operating Reserve, or (iii)

                 offer Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability and/or On-Line Short-Term

                 Reserve unless such Resource has been included in the Network Model. All

                 energy withdrawn must be stored for later reinjection and may not be used to

                 serve retail load. A Market Participant’s Distributed Energy Aggregated

                 Resource can supply Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental

                 Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or On-Line Short-

                 Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if the

                 Transmission Provider has certified that the Resource is a Regulation Qualified

                 Resource, Spin Qualified Resource, Supplemental Qualified Resource, Up and

                 Down Ramp Capability Qualified Resource, and/or Short-Term Reserve Qualified

                 Resource respectively. Market Participants that offer to transact Real-Time

                 Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve, Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp

                 Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve shall provide the

                 Offer information specified below.

          b.     Required Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Components

                 Market Participants that submit Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offers

                 shall include an Energy Offer, a Regulating Capacity Offer and a Regulating

                 Mileage Offer (if a Regulation Qualified Resource), a Spinning Reserve Offer (if

                 a Spin Qualified Resource), an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a

                 Supplemental Qualified Resource but not a Spin Qualified Resource), an Off-Line




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                 Supplemental Reserve Offer (if a Quick-Start Resource), a Start-Up Offer, a No-

                 Load Offer, an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status, and an online

                 Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. Market Participants can provide Distributed

                 Energy Aggregated Resource Offers for the full capability of their Resource

                 pursuant to the requirements outlined in Section 40.2.4; and may indicate, as part

                 of the Offer, that the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, can be cleared

                 only during a surplus or shortage Emergency in either Emergency Withdraw or

                 Emergency Inject Commitment Status, respectively. Market Participants may

                 submit a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer that contains zero dollar

                 ($0) amounts for No-Load and Start-Up Offers, in which case only the Energy

                 Offer, Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer (if applicable),

                 Spinning Reserve Offer (if applicable), On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if

                 applicable), Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer (if applicable), Up and Down

                 Ramp Capability Dispatch Status, and an On-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch

                 Status will be considered by the market clearing process pursuant to Section

                 40.2.8. from a given Resource. Any limits on the Distributed Energy Aggregated

                 Resource Offer covering the full capability of the Resource must be consistent

                 with Module D. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a Real-Time Energy

                 and Operating Reserve Market Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer for

                 each Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource. These Offers are standing Offers

                 and are maintained for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 independent of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market. These




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                 Offers may be updated for a specific Hour up to thirty (30) minutes prior to the

                 beginning of the Hour. Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer

                 components are as follows:

                 i.     Energy Offer Curve. The Energy Offer curve to either withdraw and/or

                        inject shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in $/MWh and shall

                        consist of either a stepped or a piecewise linear Offer curve of up to ten

                        (10) segments, shall be monotonically increasing, and shall cover the full

                        operating range, including Emergency range, as applicable to the

                        Commitment Status of the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.

                 ii.    Regulating Capacity Offer and Regulating Mileage Offer. The Regulating

                        Capacity Offer shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in $/MW/Hour

                        and is only applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources. The Regulating

                        Mileage Offer shall be a single value expressed for each Hour in $/MW

                        and is only applicable to Regulation Qualified Resources. If the

                        Regulating Capacity Offer is negative, then the Regulating Mileage Offer

                        must be $0/MW. In a given Hour, any Resource with Regulating Reserve

                        cleared in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must

                        have the same Real-Time Regulating Mileage Offer as its Day-Ahead

                        Regulating Mileage Offer.

                 iii.   Spinning Reserve Offer. The Spinning Reserve Offer shall be expressed

                        for each Hour as a value in $/MW/Hour and is only applicable to Spin

                        Qualified Resources.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 iv.     On-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The On-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in $/MW/Hour

                         and is only applicable to Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not

                         Spin Qualified Resources.

                 v.      Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Offer. The Off-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Offer shall be expressed for each Hour as a value in $/MW/Hour

                         and is only applicable to Resources that are Quick-Start Resources and

                         have Commitment Status as Available.

                 vi.     Start-Up Offer. The Start-Up Offer shall be expressed for each Day in

                         $/start. A separate Start-Up Offer shall be submitted for hot, intermediate,

                         and cold Start-Up conditions.

                 vii.    No-Load Offer. The No-Load Offer shall be expressed for each Hour in

                         $/Hour.

                 viii.   Commercial Pricing Node. A Commercial Pricing Node shall be specified

                         for the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource at the time the asset is

                         registered. The Commercial Pricing Node shall be the same one used for

                         the Resource in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

                 ix.     Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include a Bi-Directional

                         Ramp Rate Curve representing the Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate

                         expressed for each Hour in MW/minute. This Hourly Bi-Directional Ramp

                         Rate value will be used in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

                         Market, RAC and LAC process while ramping up or down with an output




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                       below zero (0). If no Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate is submitted, the

                       default Withdrawal Ramp Rate will be used. The default Withdrawal

                       Ramp Rate is specified during the asset registration process and can be

                       updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 x.    Hourly Injection Ramp Rate. An Offer shall include a Bi-Directional

                       Ramp Rate Curve representing the Hourly Injection Ramp Rate expressed

                       for each Hour in MW/minute. This Hourly Bi-Directional Ramp Rate

                       value will be used in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

                       Market, RAC and LAC process while ramping up or down with an output

                       above zero (0). If no Hourly Injection Ramp Rate is submitted, the default

                       Injection Ramp Rate will be used. The default Hourly Injection Ramp

                       Rate is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                       by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                       When the Commitment Status is Continuous, the Ramp Rate value would

                       be determined based on which side of zero (0) the resource is getting

                       dispatched. If the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is being

                       dispatched above zero (0) then the Hourly Injection Ramp Rate is used,

                       conversely, if the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is being

                       dispatched below zero (0) then the Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate is used

                       for Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.

                 xi.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit if the Resource is a




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                        Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                        Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit is submitted, the default

                        limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                        registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                        Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit shall

                        be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal

                        Limit, and shall be less than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum

                        Withdrawal Limit. This limit will be used as the minimum MW dispatch

                        limit when the Commitment Status is Withdraw, Emergency Withdrawal

                        or Continuous for Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources qualified and

                        committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Inject or

                        Emergency Inject, this limit will not be used.

                 xii.   Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit if the Resource is a

                        Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                        Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit is submitted, the default

                        limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                        registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                        Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Maximum Withdrawal Limit shall

                        be less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal

                        Limit, shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum

                        Withdrawal Limit, and shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                         Regulation Minimum Withdrawal Limit. This limit will be used as the

                         maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is Withdraw

                         or Emergency Withdraw for Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources

                         qualified and committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is

                         Available, Inject, Emergency Inject or Continuous, this limit will not be

                         used.

                 xiii.   Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit if the Resource is a

                         Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                         Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit is submitted, the default limit

                         will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset registration

                         process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the Market

                         Portal. The Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection Limit shall be greater

                         than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit, and shall

                         be less than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit.

                         This limit will be used as the minimum MW dispatch limit when the

                         Commitment Status is Inject Emergency Inject or Available for

                         Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources qualified and committed for

                         Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Withdraw, Emergency

                         Withdraw or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xiv.    Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit if the Resource is a




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                       Regulation Qualified Resource, expressed for each Hour in MW. If no

                       Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit is submitted, the default

                       limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                       registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                       Market Portal. The Hourly Regulation Maximum Injection Limit shall be

                       less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit, and

                       shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly Regulation Minimum Injection

                       Limit. This limit will be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when

                       the Commitment Status is Available, Inject Emergency Inject or

                       Continuous or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources qualified and

                       committed for Regulation. When the Commitment Status is Withdraw or

                       Emergency Withdraw, this limit will not be used.

                 xv.   Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit, expressed for each Hour

                       in MW. If no Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit is submitted,

                       the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                       registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                       Market Portal. Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limits shall be

                       less than or equal to zero. This value shall be greater than or equal to the

                       Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit. This limit may be used as

                       the maximum MW dispatch limit when the Commitment Status is

                       Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw. When the Commitment Status is




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                         Available, Inject, Emergency Inject or Continuous, this limit will not be

                         used.

                 xvi.    Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a

                         Resource from the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                         such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR,

                         unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or

                         other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Economic Maximum

                         Injection Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default

                         limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                         by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. This value shall be greater

                         than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit. This

                         limit may be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the

                         Commitment Status is Inject, Emergency Inject, Available or Continuous.

                         When the Commitment Status is Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw, this

                         limit will not be used.

                 xvii.   Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit, expressed for each Hour

                         in MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limit is submitted,

                         the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                         registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                        Market Portal. This value shall be greater than or equal to the Hourly

                        Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit. This Limit may be used when

                        the Commitment Status is Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw or Continuous

                        as minimum MW dispatch limit. When the Commitment Status is

                        Available, Inject or Emergency Inject, this limit will not be used.

                 xviii. Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit. An Offer shall include an

                        Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                        MW. If no Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limit is submitted, the

                        default limit will be used. The default limit is specified during the asset

                        registration process and can be updated by a Market Participant from the

                        Market Portal. Hourly Economic Minimum Inject Limits shall be greater

                        than or equal to zero (0). This value shall be greater than or equal to the

                        Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limit. This Limit may be used

                        when the Commitment Status is Inject, Emergency Inject, or Available as

                        minimum MW dispatch limit. When the Commitment Status is Withdraw,

                        Emergency Withdraw, or Continuous, this limit will not be used.

                 xix.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall include

                        an Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limit, expressed for each

                        Hour in MW. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum Withdrawal Limit is

                        submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified

                        during the asset registration process and can be updated by a Market

                        Participant from the Market Portal. Hourly Emergency Maximum




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                       Withdrawal Limits shall be less than or equal to zero. This value shall be

                       greater than or equal to Hourly Economic Maximum Withdrawal Limit.

                       This limit may be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the

                       Commitment Status is Emergency Withdraw or Withdraw under

                       Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment Status is

                       Available, Inject, Emergency Inject or Continuous, the limit will not be

                       used.

                 xx.   Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit. An Offer shall include an

                       Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                       MW, which shall not be used to withhold a portion of the Capacity of a

                       Resource from the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if

                       such Capacity is designated as a Capacity Resource pursuant to RAR,

                       unless such portion is unavailable due to a forced or planned outage or

                       other physical operating restrictions. If no Hourly Emergency Maximum

                       Injection Limit is submitted, the default limit will be used. The default

                       limit is specified during the asset registration process and can be updated

                       by a Market Participant from the Market Portal. This value shall be

                       greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Injection Limit.

                       This limit may be used as the maximum MW dispatch limit when the

                       Commitment Status is Emergency Inject, Inject, Available or Continuous

                       under Emergency operating conditions. When the Commitment Status is

                       Withdraw or Emergency Withdraw, this limit will not be used.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 xxi.    Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit, expressed for each Hour

                         in MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit is

                         submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified

                         during the asset registration process and can be updated by a Market

                         Participant from the Market Portal. This Limit may be used when the

                         Commitment Status is Emergency Withdraw, Withdraw or Continuous as

                         minimum MW dispatch limit under Emergency operating conditions.

                         When Commitment Status is Available, Inject or Emergency Inject, this

                         limit will not be used.

                 xxii.   Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limit. An Offer shall include an

                         Hourly Emergency Minimum Injection Limit, expressed for each Hour in

                         MW. If no Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy Injection Limit is

                         submitted, the default limit will be used. The default limit is specified

                         during the asset registration process and can be updated by a Market

                         Participant from the Market Portal. Hourly Emergency Minimum

                         Injection Limits shall be greater than or equal to zero (0). This Limit may

                         be used when the Commitment Status is Emergency Inject, Inject, or

                         Available as minimum MW dispatch limit under Emergency operating

                         conditions. When Commitment Status is Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw

                         or Continuous, this limit will not be used.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                 xxiii. Minimum Inject Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Inject Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxiv. Maximum Inject Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Inject Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxv.   Minimum Down Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Down Time,

                        expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxvi. Start-Up Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate, and cold

                        Start-Up Time, each of which is expressed for each Hour in Hours and/or

                        Minutes.

                 xxvii. Start-Up Notification Times. An Offer shall include a hot, intermediate,

                        and cold Start-Up Notification Time, each of which is expressed for each

                        Hour in Hours and/or Minutes.

                 xxviii. Hot-to-Intermediate Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Intermediate

                        Time, expressed for each Day in Hours and/or minutes.

                 xxix. Hot-to-Cold Time. An Offer shall include a Hot-to-Cold Time, expressed

                        for each Day in Hours and/or minutes.

                 xxx.   Maximum Daily Energy. An Offer shall include specification of a

                        Maximum Daily Energy amount, if applicable, expressed for each Day in

                        MWh.

                 xxxi. Maximum Daily Contingency Reserve Deployment. A Maximum Daily

                        Contingency Reserve Deployment is associated with each DEAR, if

                        applicable, and is expressed for each Day in MWh. If no daily Maximum




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                       Daily Contingency Reserve Deployment is submitted, the default

                       Maximum Daily Contingency Reserve Deployment specified during the

                       asset registration process will be used.

                 xxxii. Maximum Daily Regulation Up Deployment. A Maximum Daily

                       Regulation Up Deployment is associated with each DEAR, if applicable,

                       and is expressed for each Day in MWh. If no daily Maximum Daily

                       Regulation Up Deployment is submitted, the default Maximum Daily

                       Regulation Up Deployment specified during the asset registration process

                       will be used.

                 xxxiii. Maximum Daily Regulation Down Deployment. A Maximum Daily

                       Regulation Down Deployment is associated with each DEAR, if

                       applicable, and is expressed for each Day in MWh. If no daily Maximum

                       Daily Regulation Down Deployment is submitted, the default Maximum

                       Daily Regulation Down Deployment specified during the asset registration

                       process will be used.

                 xxxiv. Minimum Withdraw Time. An Offer shall include a Minimum Withdraw

                       Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxxv. Maximum Withdraw Time. An Offer shall include a Maximum Withdraw

                       Time, expressed for each Day in Hours.

                 xxxvi. Maximum Off-Line Response Limit. An Offer shall include a Maximum

                       Off-Line Response Limit, expressed for each Hour in MW. This

                       requirement applies to Quick-Start Resources only. If no Hourly




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                        Maximum Off-Line Response Limit is submitted, the default Maximum

                        Off-Line Response Limit will be used. The default Maximum Off-Line

                        Response Limit is specified during the asset registration process and can

                        be updated by a Market Participant from the Market Portal.

                 xxxvii. Commitment Status. An Offer shall include specification of a

                        Commitment Status for each Hour. Valid Commitment Status

                        specifications include: Withdraw, Inject, Continuous, Emergency

                        Withdraw, Emergency Inject, Available, Outage and Not Participating.

                        An Available Commitment Status indicates the Transmission Provider is

                        authorized to clear the Market Participant’s Off-Line Supplemental

                        Reserve Offer on an economic basis for the Hour using Offer parameters

                        associated with the Commitment Status of Inject. A Withdraw, Inject, or

                        Continuous Commitment Status indicates the Market Participant is self-

                        committing the Resource for the Hour. An Emergency Withdraw or

                        Emergency Inject Commitment Status indicates the Transmission Provider

                        is authorized to commit the Resource only under an Emergency condition

                        for the Hour. An Outage Commitment Status indicates the Resource is not

                        available for commitment or off-line Ancillary Service Market products

                        during the Hour due to a planned or forced outage. A Not Participating

                        Commitment Status indicates the Market Participant will not operate a

                        Resource that is otherwise available. The Not Participating Commitment

                        Status will be available to a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource that




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                        has all or a portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but

                        must be used consistent with Module E-1 obligations.

                 xxxviii.      Energy Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of an

                        Energy Dispatch Status for Energy. Valid Energy Dispatch Status

                        specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule, and Not Participating.

                        An Economic Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission

                        Provider is authorized to economically clear Energy on the Resource for

                        the Hour. A Self-Schedule Energy Dispatch Status indicates that the

                        Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Energy on the Resource for the

                        Hour and will follow the Self-Scheduling Rules defined in section 39.1.2.

                        The Not Participating Energy Dispatch Status will be available to a

                        Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource in Continuous Commitment

                        Status and that has all or a portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity

                        Resource, but must be used consistent with Module E-1 obligations. The

                        Energy Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are committed for

                        the Hour.

                 xxxix. Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification

                        of a Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status for Regulating Reserve. Valid

                        Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic,

                        Self-Schedule, Not Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic

                        Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission

                        Provider is authorized to economically clear Regulating Reserve on the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


                       Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule Regulating Reserve Dispatch

                       Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Regulating

                       Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Regulating

                       Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to

                       provide Regulating Reserve for an Hour. A Not Participating Regulating

                       Reserve Dispatch Status indicates the Market Participant will not provide

                       Regulating Reserve on a Resource that is otherwise qualified to provide

                       Regulating Reserve. The Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status only applies

                       to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) registered as

                       Regulation Qualified Resources.

                 xl.   Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include specification of

                       a Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status for Spinning Reserve. Valid Spinning

                       Reserve Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule

                       and Not Qualified. An Economic Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status

                       indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                       clear Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Self-Schedule

                       Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Market Participant is

                       Self-Scheduling Spinning Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not

                       Qualified Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is

                       not qualified to provide Spinning Reserve for an Hour. The Spinning

                       Reserve Dispatch Status cannot be set to Not Qualified for a specific




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                        Resource in a specific Hour unless the Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status

                        is also set to Not Qualified for that Resource in that Hour.

                        For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                        Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to

                        Section 40.2.7C.b.xxxiv of the Tariff in order to not participate in

                        providing Spinning Reserve. The Spinning Reserve Dispatch Status only

                        applies to Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) are

                        registered as Spin Qualified Resources.

                 xli.   On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                        specification of an On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                        Supplemental Reserve. Valid On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status specifications include: Economic, Self-Schedule and Not

                        Qualified. An Economic On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                        indicates that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically

                        clear Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource

                        is committed. A Self-Schedule On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status indicates that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling

                        Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour if the Resource is

                        committed. A Not Qualified On-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                        Status indicates that the Resource is not qualified to provide Supplemental

                        Reserve for an Hour as a committed Resource.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                         For a Resource not designated as a Capacity Resource, a Market

                         Participant must select a Not Participating Commitment Status pursuant to

                         Section 40.2.7C.b.xxxiv of the Tariff in order to not participate in

                         providing On-Line Supplemental Reserve. The On-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources that are i) committed

                         for the Hour, ii) registered as Supplemental Qualified Resources and, iii)

                         not registered as Spin Qualified Resources or have been disqualified by

                         the Market Participant as Spin Qualified Resources for the Hour.

                 xlii.   Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                         specification of an Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status for

                         Supplemental Reserve. Valid Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch

                         Status specifications include: Economic, Emergency, Self-Schedule, Not

                         Qualified and Not Participating. An Economic Off-Line Supplemental

                         Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                         authorized to economically clear Off-Line Supplemental Reserve on the

                         Resource for the Hour when the Resource’s Commitment Status is

                         Available.

                         An Emergency Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates

                         that the Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear Off-

                         Line Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour when the

                         Resource’s Commitment Status is Available and an Emergency condition

                         occurs. A Self-Schedule Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                          indicates that the Market Participant is Self-Scheduling Off-Line

                          Supplemental Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Qualified Off-

                          Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource is

                          not qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve for an Hour.

                          A Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status

                          indicates the Market Participant will not provide Off-Line Supplemental

                          Reserve on a Resource that has a Commitment Status of Available and

                          that is otherwise qualified to provide Off-Line Supplemental Reserve.

                          The Not Participating Off-Line Supplemental Reserve Dispatch Status will

                          be available to a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource that has all or a

                          portion of its capacity designated as a Capacity Resource, but must be

                          used consistent with Module E-1 obligations. The Off-Line Supplemental

                          Reserve Dispatch Status only applies to Resources when their

                          Commitment Status is Available for the Hour and they are registered as

                          Quick-Start Resources.

                 xliii.   Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                          specification of an Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status which

                          applies to both Up Ramp Capability and Down Ramp Capability. Valid

                          Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status specifications include:

                          Economic and Not Participating. An Economic Up and Down Ramp

                          Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Transmission Provider is

                          authorized to economically clear Up Ramp Capability and/or Down Ramp




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                         40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                    Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


                         Capability on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Up and

                         Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall

                         not be cleared to supply Up Ramp Capability or Down Ramp Capability

                         for an Hour.

                         The Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status only applies to

                         Resources that are i) committed for the Hour and ii) have offered an

                         Energy Dispatch Status of Economic for the Hour.

                 xliv.   On-Line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status. An Offer shall include

                         specification of an on-line Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status which

                         applies to on-line Resources for each Hour. Valid Short-Term Reserve

                         Dispatch Status specifications include: Economic and Not Participating.

                         An Economic Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the

                         Transmission Provider is authorized to economically clear On-Line Short-

                         Term Reserve on the Resource for the Hour. A Not Participating Short-

                         Term Reserve Dispatch Status indicates that the Resource shall not be

                         cleared to supply Short-Term Reserve for the Hour.

                 xlv.    Fast Ramping Resource Offer. An Offer shall include specification of

                         whether the Resource is eligible or ineligible to be treated as a Fast

                         Ramping Resource for each Hour. A valid Fast Ramping Resource Offer

                         shall state a specification of either “Yes” or “No.” “Yes” indicates that the

                         Resource could receive fast AGC signals while deploying Regulating




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


                       Reserves, and “No” indicates that the Resource will not accept fast AGC

                       signals while deploying Regulating Reserves.

                       (a)    Eligibility at Start of Each Hour. At the beginning of each Hour, a

                              Regulation Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping

                              Resource shall be deemed eligible to receive fast AGC signals

                              regardless of its performance in the last Dispatch Interval of the

                              preceding Hour.

                       (b)    Eligibility During Each Dispatch Interval. A Regulation Qualified

                              Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping Resource for a

                              particular Hour shall be eligible to receive fast AGC signals in the

                              first Dispatch Interval of that Hour, and in any ensuing Dispatch

                              Interval of that Hour which is immediately preceded by a Dispatch

                              Interval when the Resource met or exceeded the Fast Ramping

                              Resource Performance Threshold in the Fast Ramping Resource

                              Performance Test during that preceding Dispatch Interval.

                       (c)    Treatment When Ineligible to Receive Fast AGC Signals. If a

                              Regulation Qualified Resource that is offered as a Fast Ramping

                              Resource for a particular Hour fails to meet the Fast Ramping

                              Resource Performance Threshold in the Fast Ramping Resource

                              Performance Test during a particular Dispatch Interval, other than

                              the last Dispatch Interval of that Hour, the Resource shall receive

                              only regular AGC signals in the next Dispatch Internal. Even




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                     Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


                                   when receiving regular AGC signals in a Dispatch Interval, the

                                   Resource shall continue undergoing the Fast Ramping Resource

                                   Performance Test in that Dispatch Interval, and if it meets the Fast

                                   Ramping Resource Performance Threshold, shall be eligible to

                                   receive fast AGC signals in the following Dispatch Interval.

                 xlvi.   Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Neutral Zone Upper Limit, expressed in percentage of Hourly Maximum

                         Energy Storage Level. A single Hourly Neutral Zone Upper Limit value of

                         less than or equal to 100 should be used. Resources that are not Use

                         Limited Resources should use a value of 100. This limit value will be used

                         to compute the Fast Ramping Resource AGC signal while sending the

                         Regulating Resource signal.

                 xlvii. Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit. An Offer shall include an Hourly

                         Neutral Zone Lower Limit, expressed in percentage of Hourly Maximum

                         Energy Storage Level. A single Hourly Neutral Zone Lower Limit value

                         of greater than or equal to 0, and less than Hourly Neutral Zone Upper

                         Limit should be used. Resources that are not Use Limited Resources

                         should use a value of 0. This limit value will be used to compute the Fast

                         Ramping Resource AGC signal while sending the Regulating Resource

                         signal.

          c.     Ramp Rate Curves




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 A Market Participant may specify a Withdrawal Ramp Rate curve and Injection

                 Ramp Rate curve for use in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                 and each curve may include up to ten (10) linear segments. Such ramp rate curves

                 may be updated for a specific Hour no less than thirty (30) minutes prior to the

                 beginning of the Hour. The Market Participant may activate the use of such ramp

                 rate curves for a specific Hour no less than thirty (30) minutes prior to the

                 beginning of the Hour. If activated, such ramp rate curves will be used in lieu of

                 the Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate and/or the Hourly Injection Ramp Rate for a

                 specific Resource during a specific Hour in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                 Reserve Market. When the Commitment Status is Continuous, the Ramp Rate

                 curve would be determined based on which side of zero (0) the Resource is

                 getting dispatched. If the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is being

                 dispatched above zero (0), then the Hourly Injection Ramp Rate curve is used,

                 conversely, if the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is being dispatched

                 below zero (0), then the Withdrawal Ramp Rate curve will be used for Distributed

                 Energy Aggregated Resource to ramp up or down. If activated, such ramp rate

                 curves will be used in lieu of the Hourly Injection Ramp Rate or Hourly

                 Withdrawal Ramp Rate for a specific Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource

                 during a specific Hour in the Real-Time energy and Operating Reserve Market. If

                 such ramp rate curves are activated, the LAC process will use the information

                 from the ramp rate curves for a specific Resource during a specific Hour as

                 specified in the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


          d.     Limit and Ramp Rate Priority

                 Default operating limits for Resources shall be provided to the Transmission

                 Provider during asset registration and can be overridden by hourly Resource

                 limits (limits applicable to an Operating Hour). Furthermore, hourly limits can be

                 overridden as necessary within an Hour by the Transmission Provider at the

                 request of the Market Participant to reflect real-time changes in the operational

                 capabilities associated with Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources. Default

                 Withdrawal Ramp Rate and default Injection Ramp Rate for Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resources provided to the Transmission Provider during asset

                 registration can be overridden by the Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate and Hourly

                 Injection Ramp Rate, and the Hourly Withdrawal Ramp Rate and Hourly

                 Injection Ramp Rate can be overridden by Withdrawal Ramp Rate curve and

                 Injection Ramp Rate curve. Furthermore, all Withdrawal and Injection Ramp

                 Rates can be overridden as necessary by the Transmission Provider at the request

                 of the Market Participant within an Hour to reflect changes in the operational

                 capabilities associated with Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources. All

                 specified Resource limits, ramp rates and other physical operating parameters are

                 subject to investigation by the Independent Market Monitor pursuant to provisions

                 set forth in Module D.

          e.     Values in Offers

                 The values in Offers representing the non-price information identified in Section

                 40.2.7C.b shall reflect the actual known physical capabilities and characteristics




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 of the Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource on which the Offer is based,

                 except that the Hourly Emergency Maximum Injection Limit and Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Injection Limit of a Distributed Energy Aggregated

                 Resource may, at the discretion of the Market Participant, be reduced by an

                 amount equal to any Capacity associated with the Resource that is i) not

                 designated as a Capacity Resource, ii) not being used to provide Energy,

                 Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve to the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, iii) not being used to provide

                 Capacity in any RAC process or the LAC process, iv) not being used to provide

                 Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve to the

                 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and v) not being used to

                 provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, or Short-Term Reserve

                 to any other party or entity.

          f.     Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Offer Price Caps and

                 Floors

                 The following Offer Price Caps and floors will apply to Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

                 i.       Energy Offer Soft Price Cap: $1,000/MWh; applied to non-Verified

                          Energy Offers. Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap,

                          submitted before the close of the Real-Time Energy and Operating

                          Reserves Market, but not verified by the Independent Market Monitor

                          until after market clearing, will be used in the determination of Real-Time




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.2.7C
FERC Electric Tariff                       Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource Offer Rules Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


                         Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19

                         of this Tariff.

                 ii.     Energy Offer Hard Price Cap: $2,000/MWh, applied to Verified Energy

                         Offers. Verified Energy Offers above the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap

                         will be used in the determination of Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                         Guarantee Credits in accordance with section 40.2.19 of this Tariff.

                 iii.    Energy Offer Price Floor: Negative $500/MWh.

                 iv.     Regulating Total Cost Price Cap: $500/MW/Hour.

                 v.      Regulating Total Cost Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour.

                 vi.     Contingency Reserve Offer Price Cap: $100/MW/Hour.

                 vii.    Contingency Reserve Offer Price Floor: $0/MW/Hour.

                 viii.   Regulating Mileage Offer Price Floor: $0/MW.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.2.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                         43.0.0


          Market Participants may submit Self-Schedules for Energy from their Resources, in

   whole or in part, in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, except for Electric

   Storage Resources and Demand Response Resources. Market Participants may submit Self-

   Schedules for Operating Reserve from their Resources, in whole or in part, in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market, except for Electric Storage Resources. Market

   Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy are required to submit a MW quantity and the

   applicable time period for each Self-Scheduled Resource.

          Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Operating Reserve are required to

   submit a MW quantity and the applicable time period for each Self-Scheduled Resource. Market

   Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy and/or Operating Reserve are Price Takers for

   each Self-Schedule. Self-Schedules for Energy must be greater than or equal to the Hourly

   Economic Minimum Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit, or

   the Forecast Maximum Limit. In the event that the Forecast Maximum Limit is less than the Self

   Schedule for Energy, the Self Schedule for Energy shall be set equal to the Forecast Maximum

   Limit. Self-Schedules for Regulating Reserve must be greater than or equal to one (1) MW for

   each Self-Scheduled Resource and can only be submitted for Regulation Qualified Resources.

   Self-Schedules for Spinning Reserve must be greater than or equal to one (1) MW for each Self-

   Scheduled Resource and can only be submitted for Spin Qualified Resources. Self-Schedules for

   Supplemental Reserve must be greater than or equal to one (1) MW for each Self-Scheduled

   Resource and can only be submitted for Supplemental Qualified Resources that are not also Spin

   Qualified Resources. The acceptance of Self-Schedules for a specific Self-Scheduled Resource

   will be contingent on i) the on-line status of the Self-Scheduled Resource, and ii) compliance




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                           40.2.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                        43.0.0


   with the corresponding Self-Scheduled Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in

   Schedule 29. If a Self-Schedule is accepted by the Transmission Provider, the Resource

   Schedules for Energy and Operating Reserve may clear above the Self-Scheduled amounts based

   on the submitted Offers, as needed, in an economic manner based upon the simultaneously co-

   optimized solution. The Transmission Provider may reduce Self-Schedules as necessary to

   manage transmission constraints, maintain Operating Reserve requirements, satisfy Energy

   demand and/or maintain reliable operating conditions. In no case will the Transmission Provider

   violate the Resource limits.

          Market Participants may submit Self-Schedules for Energy and/or Operating Reserve

   from their Electric Storage Resources, in whole or in part, in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market. Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Energy are

   required to submit a MW quantity and the applicable Hour for each Self-Scheduled Resource.

   Market Participants that submit Self-Schedules for Operating Reserve are required to submit a

   MW quantity and the applicable Hour for each Self-Scheduled Resource. Market Participants

   that submit Self-Schedules for Energy and/or Operating Reserve are Price Takers for each Self-

   Schedule. Self-Schedules for Energy must be: (i) greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic

   Minimum Discharge Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge

   Limit in Discharge Commitment Status; (ii) greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic

   Minimum Charge Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Charge Limit

   in Charge Commitment Status; (iii) greater than or equal to the Hourly Economic Minimum

   Charge Limit and less than or equal to the Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limit in

   Continuous Commitment Status. Self-Schedules for Regulating Reserve can only be submitted




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                              40.2.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                           43.0.0


   for Regulation Qualified Resources.

          Self-Schedules for Spinning Reserve can only be submitted for Spin Qualified Resources.

   Self-Schedules for Supplemental Reserve can only be submitted for Supplemental Qualified

   Resources that are not also Spin Qualified Resources or for Supplemental Qualified Resources

   that are Quick Start Resources that are in Available Commitment Status. The acceptance of Self-

   Schedules for a specific Self-Scheduled Resource will be contingent on compliance with the

   corresponding Self-Scheduled Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule

   29. If a Self-Schedule is accepted by the Transmission Provider, the Resource Schedules for

   Energy and Operating Reserve may clear above the Self-Scheduled amounts based on the

   submitted Offers, as needed, in an economic manner based upon the simultaneously co-

   optimized solution and with the following rules: (i) if the Self-Schedule amount is greater than

   zero (0), then MW amounts above this value can be economically dispatched; (ii) if the Self-

   Schedule amount is less than zero (0), then MW amounts below this value can be economically

   dispatched; (iii) if the Self-Schedule amount is equal to zero (0), then the Self-Schedule offer

   will be ignored. The Transmission Provider may reduce Self-Schedules as necessary to manage

   transmission constraints, maintain Operating Reserve requirements, satisfy Energy demand

   and/or maintain reliable operating conditions. In no case will the Transmission Provider violate

   the Resource limits.

          Market Participants may not submit Self-Schedules for Up Ramp Capability, Down

   Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve from their Resources in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, the values in Self-Schedules shall reflect any operating




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                             40.2.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Self-Scheduled Resources
MODULES                                                                                          43.0.0


   limitation, such as thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage

   Operations, provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

   reliability of the Transmission System, if lower than the actual known physical capabilities and

   characteristics of the Resource on which the Self-Schedule is based.




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.2.8A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Rules for Financial Schedules
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   Financial Schedules may be submitted at any time prior to 1200 hours EST six (6) Calendar

   Days after the Operating Day. The Transmission Provider is not the Energy Market

   Counterparty to the sale of Energy under a Financial Schedule transaction. The Financial

   Schedule shall include:

          i.     Identification of the Market Participants included in the Financial Schedule;

          ii.    The Commercial Pricing Nodes identified as the Source Point, the Sink Point and

                 the Delivery Point;

          iii.   The Energy and Operating Reserve Market in which the Financial Schedule will

                 be settled, using either the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMPs; and

          iv.    The scheduled volume in MWh for each Hour of the Financial Schedule.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                       40.2.9
FERC Electric Tariff                 External Demand in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserv
MODULES                                                                                    32.0.0


   External Demand in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

   Market Participants may purchase Energy in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market through Export Schedules and will be settled at the Commercial Pricing Node defined as

   the Interface or at the External Asynchronous Resources Commercial Pricing Node for each

   Export Schedule.




                                                                       Effective On: January 2, 2019
MISO                                                                                             40.2.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     State Estimator
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                               The Transmission Provider shall obtain State Estimator solutions at

                       least every five (5) minutes that provide information on (i) Energy

                       injections and withdrawals, (ii) transmission system losses, (iii) marginal

                       loss sensitivity factors, (iv) transmission voltages, and (v) actual flows on

                       transmission facilities.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        40.2.11
FERC Electric Tariff                   External Supply in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserv
MODULES                                                                                      34.0.0


   External Supply in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

          a.     Energy Interchange Transaction

          All Market Participants may Offer to sell Energy in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market through Import Schedules and will be settled at the Commercial Pricing

          Node defined as the Interface for each Import Schedule.

          b.     External Resources

          All Generation Resources Pseudo-tied to the MISO Balancing Authority Area and all

          External Asynchronous Resources supplying Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp

          Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and/or Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy

          Operating Reserve Market must maintain firm transmission capacity to the MISO

          Balancing Authority Area in an amount not less than the Hourly Emergency Maximum

          Limit of such Resources, or the DIR Feasibility Limit for Dispatchable Intermittent

          Resources.




                                                                      Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                         40.2.12
FERC Electric Tariff                     Rules for Interchange Schedules in the Real-Time Energy and
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


   Rules for Interchange Schedules in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

          Interchange Schedules include Import Schedules, Export Schedules, and Through

   Schedules. Import Schedules need not be accompanied by reservations of Point-To-Point

   Transmission Service on the Transmission System, if supported by Network Integration

   Transmission Service or are submitted pursuant to a Grandfathered Agreement.

          Export Schedules, not submitted pursuant to a Grandfathered Agreement or an individual

   Coordinating Owners coordination agreement regarding reciprocity provisions with regard to

   Transmission Service, must be accompanied by reservation of Point-To-Point Transmission

   Service on the Transmission System. Through Schedules must be accompanied by reservations

   of Point-To-Point Transmission Service, unless the Transmission Service is provided according

   to the terms of a Grandfathered Agreement, for segments within the Transmission Provider

   Region.

          Interchange Schedules may be submitted or modified in accordance with the terms in

   Attachment J.

   a.     Validation of Interchange Schedules

          Interchange Schedules are validated by the Transmission Provider to ensure an OASIS

          reservation exists for Point-to-Point Transmission Service, Network Integration

          Transmission Service, or a spot-in market transaction and the schedule can be supported.

   b.     Types of Interchange Schedules

          Interchange Schedules in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market include:

          Fixed Interchange Schedules, cleared Day-Ahead Interchange Schedules, Dynamic

          Interchange Schedules, and cleared Coordinated Transaction Schedules.




                                                                        Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                         40.2.12
FERC Electric Tariff                     Rules for Interchange Schedules in the Real-Time Energy and
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


          i.     Fixed Interchange Schedules are used by

                 Market Participants to schedule fixed amounts of Interchange in the Real-Time

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market. Market Participants that submit Fixed

                 Interchange Schedules are Price-Takers for the amount of Fixed Interchange

                 scheduled.

          ii.    Cleared Day-Ahead Interchange Schedules are Interchange Schedules that cleared

                 and settled in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and are being

                 implemented as Fixed Interchange Schedules in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market.

          iii.   Dynamic Interchange Schedules are used to dynamically schedule Energy in the

                 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The Market Participant will

                 submit an estimated Dynamic Interchange Schedule for a specific Hour up to

                 twenty (20) minutes prior to the beginning of the schedule, and that schedule will

                 be used in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market clearing process.

                 The Market Participant or the Local Balancing Authority will then provide the

                 Transmission Provider with the updated actual dynamic schedule after the fact.

          iv.    Cleared Coordinated Transaction Schedules are Interchange Schedules that clear

                 in the Coordinated Transaction Scheduling process and are being implemented in

                 the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                         Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                     40.2.13
FERC Electric Tariff                 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Demand Curves
MODULES                                                                                    38.0.0


   a.     General

   Demand Curves will be utilized in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets to

   clear Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Market-Wide Short-

   Term Reserve. The methodology for constructing Demand Curves is described in Schedule 28.

   b.     Market-Wide Demand Curves

          A Market-Wide Operating Reserve Demand Curve will be utilized to price Operating

   Reserve when sufficient Operating Reserves are not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-

   Wide Operating Reserve Requirement. A Market Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve

   Demand Curve will be used to price Regulating and Spinning Reserve when sufficient

   Regulating and Spinning Reserves are not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide

   Regulating and Spinning Reserve Requirement. A Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Demand

   Curve will be utilized to price Regulating Reserve when sufficient Regulating Reserves are not

   cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement. A Market-

   Wide Up Ramp Capability Demand Curve will be used to price Up Ramp Capability when

   sufficient Up Ramp Capability is not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide Up Ramp

   Capability Requirement. A Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Demand Curve will be used to

   price Down Ramp Capability when sufficient Down Ramp Capability is not cleared to meet the

   corresponding Market-Wide Down Ramp Capability Requirement. A Market-Wide Short-Term

   Reserve Demand Curve will be used to price Short-Term Reserve when sufficient Short-Term

   Reserve is not cleared to meet the corresponding Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve

   Requirement.

   c.     Transmission Constraint Demand Curves (TCDCs)




                                                                      Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                     40.2.13
FERC Electric Tariff                 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Demand Curves
MODULES                                                                                    38.0.0


   TCDCs shall be used to price a transmission constraints during any dispatch interval in which the

   transmission constraint cannot be managed within its binding limit using the Security

   Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED) engine.

   d.        Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint Demand Curves

   Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint Demand Curves shall be used to price Sub-Regional

   Power Balance Constraints during any Dispatch Interval in which such constraint(s) cannot be

   managed within its binding limit using the Security Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)

   engine.

   e.        Post Reserve Deployment Constraints Demand Curves

   Post Reserve Deployment Constraints Demand Curves shall be used to price Post Reserve

   Deployment Constraints during any Dispatch Interval in which such constraint(s) cannot be

   managed within its binding limit using the Security Constrained Economic Dispatch (SCED)

   engine.




                                                                       Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                    40.2.14
FERC Electric Tariff                   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Data Inputs
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0




                              The Transmission Provider shall consider the data inputs set forth

                       in this Section in clearing the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

                       Market.

                              a.     Load Forecast

                                     The Transmission Provider shall conduct Real-Time Load

                              Forecasts pursuant to procedures set forth in the Business Practices

                              Manuals. The Load Forecast shall be allocated to individual Load

                              Buses, using the most recent State Estimator results.

                              b.     Dispatch Model

                                     The Dispatch Model in the Real-Time Energy and

                              Operating Reserve Market is populated with the most recent State

                              Estimator results or most recent SCADA data as deemed

                              appropriate by Transmission Provider and most recent

                              Contingency Analysis results before the start of the Real-Time

                              Energy and Operating Reserve Market clearing process for each

                              five (5) minute Dispatch Interval.

                              c.     Resource Information

                                     The Transmission Provider shall accept and consider Offers

                              from Market Participants for Resources thirty (30) minutes prior to

                              the operating Hour.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                    40.2.14
FERC Electric Tariff   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Data Inputs
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall (i) use a SCED algorithm to clear Offers, Self-Schedules, and

   Interchange Schedules, (ii) determine the MISO Balancing Authority NSI, and (iii) establish

   prices and physically binding Dispatch Targets for each Resource and Dispatch Interval.

   a.     Determination of Dispatch Targets

          In the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the Transmission Provider shall

          determine Dispatch Targets for Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve,

          Supplemental Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

          Reserve for each Resource for the end of each Dispatch Interval.

   b.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs at Elemental Pricing Nodes

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs for each Dispatch

          Interval and Elemental Pricing Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market using the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at an Elemental

          Pricing Node in a specific Dispatch Interval is the marginal Energy, Operating Reserve,

          Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, Short-Term Reserve and, if applicable,

          Reserve Scarcity costs, Up Ramp Capability scarcity costs, Down Ramp Capability

          scarcity costs, and/or Short-Term Reserve scarcity costs to supply Energy to a Load at the

          Elemental Pricing Node during the Dispatch Interval using the SCED algorithm. The

          Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs are established based on (i) Generation Offers, (ii) Demand

          Response Resource – Type II Offers, (iii) Electric Storage Resource Offers, and (iv)

          External Asynchronous Resource Offers.

          i.     Calculation of Marginal Congestion Component. The Transmission Provider

                 will calculate the Cost of Congestion at each Elemental Pricing Node as a




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


                 component of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP (the Marginal Congestion

                 Component).

                 The Marginal Congestion Component of a Real-Time Ex Ante LMP reflects the

                 marginal cost of managing the transmission congestion and enforcing Sub-

                 Regional Power Balance Constraints that will arise from an incremental Energy

                 demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by an incremental Energy

                 injection at the Reference Bus in the SCED algorithm.

          ii.    Calculation of Marginal Losses Component. The Transmission Provider will

                 calculate the Cost of Losses at each Elemental Pricing Node as a component of

                 the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at that Elemental Pricing Node (the Marginal Losses

                 Component). The Marginal Losses Component of a Real-Time Ex Ante LMP

                 reflects the marginal cost of serving System Losses that arise from an incremental

                 Energy demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by a loss adjusted Energy

                 Injection at the Reference Bus in the SCED algorithm.

   c.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs at Aggregate Price Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs for each Dispatch

           Interval and Aggregate Price Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

           Market. The calculation of Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs for Aggregate Price Nodes will be

           based on established normalized weighting factors for each Elemental Pricing Node

           defined in the Aggregate Price Node. The Aggregate Price Nodes LMP is equal to the

           sum the products of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at each Elemental Pricing Node and

           the associated weighting factor for the Elemental Pricing Node.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                      48.0.0


   d.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs at Commercial Pricing Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider shall establish Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs for each Dispatch

          Interval and Commercial Pricing Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market. The Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs for Commercial Pricing Nodes, including the

          Marginal Congestion Component and Marginal Losses Component, shall be set equal to

          the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at the Elemental Pricing Node or Aggregate Price Node on

          which the Commercial Pricing Node is based.

   e.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at a Resource Commercial Pricing

          Node.

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at a Resource

          Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.      If the Resource has a single injection point, the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the

                  Resource Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Ex Ante LMP

                  for the Elemental Pricing Node representing the Bus connected to the single

                  injection point of the Resource.

          ii.     If the Resource has multiple injection points, that may or may not be connected to

                  different Buses, the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the Resource Commercial

                  Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the

                  Aggregate Price Node representing the Buses connected to each of the injection

                  points of the Resource. The Aggregate Price Node weighting factors are specified

                  by the Market Participant when the asset is registered.




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


   f.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at a Load Zone Commercial Pricing

          Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the Load

          Zone Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.     If the Load Zone consists of a single Load, the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the

                 Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex

                 Ante LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node representing the Bus connected to the

                 single Load.

          ii.    If the Load Zone consists of multiple Loads, the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the

                 Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex

                 Ante LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Load Zone.

                 The weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to the ratio of

                 the Load Zone’s demand at the Elemental Pricing Node to the total Demand of the

                 Load Zone, as determined by the results of the State Estimator solution from the

                 average over the twenty-four (24) hours of seven (7) Days prior to the Operation

                 Day.

   g.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at a Hub Commercial Pricing Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for a Hub

          Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.     If the Hub consists of a single Elemental Pricing Node, the Real-Time Ex Ante

                 LMP for the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-

                 Time Ex Ante LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


          ii.    If the Hub consists of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the Real-Time Ex Ante

                 LMP for the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-

                 Time Ex Ante LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Hub. The

                 weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to a fixed

                 normalized value determined by the Transmission Provider for the Hub, except as

                 provided below for an ARR Zone administered as a Hub Commercial Pricing

                 Node.

          iii.   Where an ARR Zone is administered as a Hub Commercial Pricing Node

                 consisting of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for

                 the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex

                 Ante LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Hub. The Aggregate

                 Price Node representing the ARR Zone is comprised of Elemental Pricing Nodes

                 representing the Buses where the individual Loads that comprise the ARR Zone

                 are connected.

                 The weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to the ratio of

                 the ARR Zone’s demand at the Elemental Pricing Node to the total demand of the

                 ARR Zone, as determined by the results of the State Estimator solution from the

                 average over the twenty-four (24) hours of seven (7) Days prior to the Operating

                 Day.

   h.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Ante LMP at an Interface Commercial Pricing

          Node




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall determine Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for an Interface

          Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.     If the Interface consists of a single Elemental Pricing Node, the Real-Time Ex

                 Ante LMP for the Interface Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the

                 calculated Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node.

          ii.    If the Interface consists of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the Real-Time Ex

                 Ante LMP for the Interface Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the

                 calculated Real-Time Ex Ante LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing

                 the Interface.

   i.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Ante Regulating Reserve Market Clearing Prices for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Ante MCPs for Regulating Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response

          Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using

          the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante MCP for Regulating Reserve for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources is equal to the sum of the (i) Market-

          Wide Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating and

          Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (iii) Market-Wide Regulating Reserve

          Constraint Shadow Price, (iv) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint




                                                                    Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                      48.0.0


          Shadow Price, (v) Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource – Type I Regulating

          and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (vi) beginning November 1, 2011,

          additional marginal cost for managing congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018,

          additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order

          to supply incremental Regulating Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve Zone;

          all such Constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29.

   j.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Ante Spinning Reserve Market Clearing Prices for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Ante MCPs for Spinning Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response

          Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using

          the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante MCP for Spinning Reserve for Generation

          Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and

          External Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating Reserve

          Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve Constraint

          Shadow Price, (iii) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow

          Price, (iv) Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource – Type I Regulating and

          Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (v) beginning November 1, 2011,

          additional marginal cost for managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26,

          2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                      48.0.0


          order to supply incremental Spinning Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29. Such Spinning

          Reserved MCPs for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

          External Asynchronous Resources shall be calculated on a real-time basis for each

          Dispatch Interval of the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   k.     Determining the Ex Ante Spinning Reserve Market Clearing Price for Demand

          Response Resources – Type I

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Ex Ante Spinning Reserve MCPs for

          Demand Response Resources – Type I for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market, based on the SCED algorithm, if such Demand

          Response Resources – Type I are eligible to provide Spinning Reserve as determined by

          Applicable Reliability Standards. The Spinning Reserve MCP for Demand Response

          Resources –Type I is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating Reserve Constraint

          Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow

          Price, and (iii) beginning November 1, 2011, additional marginal cost of managing

          transmission congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018, additional marginal cost of

          enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order to supply incremental

          Spinning Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve Zone. All such constraints

          noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29.

   l.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Ante Supplemental Reserve Market Clearing Prices

          for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Ante MCPs for Supplemental Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response

          Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using

          the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante MCP for Supplemental Reserve for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide

          Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Generation-

          based Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (iii) beginning November 1,

          2011, additional marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning

          August 26, 2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance

          Constraints, in order to supply incremental Supplemental Reserve from the Reference

          Bus to the Reserve Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule

          29.

   m.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Ante Supplemental Reserve Market Clearing Price

          for Demand Response Resources - Type I

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Ante MCPs for Supplemental Reserve for Demand Response Resources - Type I for each

          Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using the

          SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante MCP for Supplemental Reserve for Demand

          Response Resources - Type I is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating Reserve

          Constraint Shadow Price, and (ii) beginning November 1, 2011, additional marginal cost




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                      48.0.0


          of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018, additional

          marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order to supply

          incremental Supplemental Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve Zone. All such

          constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29.

   n.     Determining the Ex Ante Up Ramp Capability Market Clearing Price

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex Ante Up Ramp Capability

          MCPs for qualified Resources for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, based on the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante Up

          Ramp Capability MCP for a Resource is the Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone

          Up Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint Shadow Price where the Ramp

          Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Up Ramp Capability Constraint is as set forth in

          Schedule 29. Such Up Ramp Capability MCPs for Resources shall be calculated on a

          real-time basis for each Dispatch Interval of the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market.

   o.     Determining the Ex Ante Down Ramp Capability Market Clearing Price

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex Ante Down Ramp

          Capability MCPs for qualified Resources for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market, based on the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex

          Ante Down Ramp Capability MCP for a Resource is the Ramp Procurement Minimum

          Reserve Zone Down Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint Shadow Price where the

          Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Down Ramp Capability Constraint is as set

          forth in Schedule 29. Such Down Ramp Capability MCPs for Resources shall be




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.15
FERC Electric Tariff                         Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Process
MODULES                                                                                     48.0.0


          calculated on a real-time basis for each Dispatch Interval of the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market.

   p.     Real-Time Ex Ante LMP and Real-Time Ex Ante MCP Price Cap.

          All Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs and Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs will be capped at the

          Pricing VOLL.

   q.     Determining the Ex Ante Regulating Mileage Market Clearing Price

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Ex Ante Regulating Mileage MCPs for

          each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The Ex

          Ante Regulating Mileage MCP for a Dispatch Interval is the highest Regulating Mileage

          Offer among all Resources that meet the following criteria: (1) if the Resource has a Day-

          Ahead schedule for cleared Regulating Reserve, then the Regulating Reserve Dispatch

          Status in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be economic, (2)

          the Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status has to be economic in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, and (3)the Resource has a non-zero Dispatch Target for

          Regulating Reserve in that Dispatch Interval.

   r.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Ante Short-Term Reserve Market Clearing Price

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs for Short-Term

          Reserve for qualified reserves for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, using the SCED algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Ante MCP for

          Short-Term Reserve is the applicable Co-optimized Zonal Short-Term Reserve

          Requirement constraint Shadow Price.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                         40.2.16
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                        Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


   For each Dispatch Interval, the Transmission Provider shall use the SCED-Pricing algorithm to

   establish Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs. The Real-Time Ex Post LMPs

   and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs will be subject to input data validation and adherence to the price

   calculation requirements. Input data validation corrections will be made pursuant to Section

   40.2.18 of this Tariff. The Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs are used to

   settle Real-Time Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and

   Short-Term Reserve deviations and are determined as described below:

   a.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Post LMPs at Elemental Pricing Nodes

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for each Dispatch

          Interval and Elemental Pricing Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market using the SCED-Pricing algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Post LMP at an Elemental

          Pricing Node in a specific Dispatch Interval is the marginal Energy, Operating Reserve,

          Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, Short-Term Reserve and, if applicable,

          Reserve Scarcity costs, Up Ramp Capability scarcity costs, Down Ramp Capability

          scarcity costs, and/or Short-Term Reserve scarcity costs to supply Energy to Load at the

          Elemental Pricing Node during the Dispatch Interval using the SCED-Pricing algorithm,

          described in Schedule 29A. The Real-Time Ex Post LMPs are established based on (i)

          Generation Offers, (ii) Demand Response Resource Offers, (iii) External Asynchronous

          Resource Offers, (iv) Emergency Demand Response resource Offers; (v) Electric Storage

          Resource Offers; and (vi) Proxy Offers when appropriate as specified in Schedule 29A.

          i.     Calculation of Marginal Congestion Component. The Transmission Provider will

                 calculate the Cost of Congestion at each Elemental Pricing Node as a component




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                       Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


                 of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP (the Marginal Congestion Component). The

                 Marginal Congestion Component of a Real-Time Ex Post LMP reflects the

                 marginal cost of managing the transmission congestion and enforcing Sub-

                 Regional Power Balance Constraints that will arise from an incremental Energy

                 demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by an incremental Energy

                 injection at the Reference Bus.

          ii.    Calculation of Marginal Losses Component. The Transmission Provider will

                 calculate the Cost of Losses at each Elemental Pricing Node as a component of

                 the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at that Elemental Pricing Node (the Marginal Losses

                 Component). The Marginal Losses Component of any Real-Time Ex Post LMP

                 reflects the marginal cost of serving System Losses that arise from an incremental

                 Energy demand at the Elemental Pricing Node supplied by a loss adjusted Energy

                 Injection at the Reference Bus.

   b.     Determination of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs at Aggregate Price Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider shall calculate Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for each Dispatch

          Interval and Aggregate Price Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market. The calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for Aggregate Price Nodes will be

          based on established normalized weighting factors for each Elemental Pricing Node

          defined in the Aggregate Price Node. The Aggregate Price Node is equal to the sum of

          the products of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at each Elemental Pricing Node and the

          associated weighting factor for the Elemental Pricing Node.

   c.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Post LMPs at Commercial Pricing Nodes




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                         Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                        57.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall establish Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for each Dispatch

          Interval and Commercial Pricing Node in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market. The Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for Commercial Pricing Nodes, including the

          Marginal Congestion Component and Marginal Losses Component, shall be set equal to

          the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Elemental Pricing Node or Aggregate Price Node on

          which the Commercial Pricing Node is based.

   d.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at a Resource Commercial Pricing

          Node.

          The Transmission Provider shall determine the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at a

          Resource Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.      If the Resource has a single injection and/or withdrawal point, the Real-Time Ex

                  Post LMP for the Resource Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the

                  calculated Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node representing

                  the Bus connected to the single injection and/or withdrawal point of the Resource.

          ii.     If the Resource has multiple injection points, that may or may not be connected to

                  different Buses, the Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the Resource Commercial

                  Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the

                  Aggregate Price Node representing the Buses connected to each of the injection

                  points of the Resource.

                  The Aggregate Price Node weighing factors are specified by the Market

                  Participant when the asset is registered.




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                       Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


   e.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at a Load Zone Commercial Pricing

          Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine an Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the

          Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.     If the Load Zone consists of a single Load, the Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the

                 Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node representing the Bus connected to the

                 single Load.

          ii.    If the Load Zone consists of multiple Loads, the Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the

                 Load Zone Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Load Zone. The

                 Aggregate Price Node representing the Load Zone is comprised of Elemental

                 Pricing Nodes representing the Buses where the individual Loads that comprise

                 the Load Zone are connected. The weighting factor for a specific Elemental

                 Pricing Node is equal to the ratio of the Load Zone’s demand at the Elemental

                 Pricing Node to the total demand of the Load Zone as determined by the results of

                 the State Estimator solution from the average over the twenty-four (24) hours of

                 seven (7) Days prior to the Operation Day.

   f.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at a Hub Commercial Pricing Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine Real-Time Ex Post LMP for a Hub

          Commercial Pricing Node as follows:




                                                                    Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                       Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


          i.     If the Hub consists of a single Elemental Pricing Node, the Real-Time Ex Post

                 LMP for the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-

                 Time Ex Post LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node.

          ii.    If the Hub consists of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the Real-Time Ex Post

                 LMP for the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-

                 Time Ex Post LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Hub. The

                 weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to a fixed

                 normalized value determined by the Transmission Provider for the Hub, except as

                 provided below for an ARR Zone administered as a Hub Commercial Pricing

                 Node.

          iii.   Where an ARR Zone is administered as a Hub Commercial Pricing Node

                 consisting of multiple Elemental Pricing Nodes, the Real-Time Ex Post LMP for

                 the Hub Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the calculated Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the Hub. The Aggregate

                 Price Node representing the ARR Zone is comprised of Elemental Pricing Nodes

                 representing the Buses where the individual Loads that comprise the ARR Zone

                 are connected.

                 The weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to the ratio of

                 the ARR Zone’s demand at the Elemental Pricing Node to the total demand of the

                 ARR Zone, as determined by the results of the State Estimator solution from the

                 average over the twenty-four (24) hours of seven (7) Days prior to the Operating

                 Day.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                       Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


   g.     Determination of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at an Interface Commercial Pricing

          Node

          The Transmission Provider shall determine Real-Time Ex Post LMP for an

          Interface Commercial Pricing Node as follows:

          i.     If the Interface consists of a single external Elemental Pricing Node, the Real-

                 Time Ex Post LMP for the Interface Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the

                 calculated Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the Elemental Pricing Node.

          ii.    If the Interface consists of multiple external Elemental Pricing Nodes, the Real-

                 Time Ex Post LMP for the Interface Commercial Pricing Node is set equal to the

                 calculated Real-Time Ex Post LMP for the Aggregate Price Node representing the

                 Interface. The weighting factor for a specific Elemental Pricing Node is equal to

                 a normalized value determined by the Transmission Provider for the Interface.

    h.    Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Regulating Reserve Market Clearing Prices for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Post MCPs for Regulating Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response

          Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market using

          the SCED-Pricing algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Post MCP for Regulating Reserve for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources is equal to the sum of the (i) Market-




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                       Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                      57.0.0


          Wide Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating and

          Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (iii) Market-Wide Regulating Reserve

          Constraint Shadow Price, (iv) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint

          Shadow Price, (v) Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource – Type I Regulating

          and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (vi) beginning November 1, 2011,

          additional marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26,

          2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in

          order to supply incremental Regulating Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   i.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Spinning Reserve Market Clearing Prices for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

          Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Post MCPs for Spinning Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response

          Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources

          for each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market using

          the SCED-Pricing algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Post MCP for Spinning Reserve for

          Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and External

          Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating Reserve Constraint

          Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Regulating and Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow

          Price, (iii) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (iv)

          Market-Wide Non-Demand Response Resource – Type I Regulating and Spinning




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                        Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


          Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (v) beginning November 1, 2011, additional

          marginal cost for managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018,

          additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order

          to supply incremental Spinning Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve Zone. All

          such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   j.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Spinning Reserve Market Clearing Prices for

          Demand Response Resources- Type I

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Post MCPs for Spinning Reserve for Demand Response Resources – Type I for each

          Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market if such

          Demand Response Resources – Type I are eligible to provide Spinning Reserve as

          determined by Applicable Reliability Standards. The Real-Time Ex Post MCP for

          Spinning Reserve for Demand Response Resources –Type I is the sum of the (i) Market-

          Wide Operating Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market- Wide Regulating and

          Spinning Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (iii) beginning November 1, 2011,

          additional marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26,

          2018, additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in

          order to supply incremental Spinning Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   k.      Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Supplemental Reserve Market Clearing Prices

           for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage

           Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                        Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for

          Supplemental Reserve for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II,

          Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources for each Dispatch

          Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market using the SCED-Pricing

          algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Post MCP for Supplemental Reserve for Generation

          Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, Electric Storage Resources, or

          External Asynchronous Resources is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating Reserve

          Constraint Shadow Price, (ii) Market-Wide Non-DRR1 Operating Reserve Constraint

          Shadow Price, if applicable, and (iii) beginning November 1, 2011, additional marginal

          cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018, additional

          marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order to supply

          incremental Supplemental Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve Zone. All such

          constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   l.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Supplemental Reserve Market Clearing Prices

          for Demand Response Resources - Type I

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Post MCPs for Supplemental Reserve for Demand Response Resources - Type I for each

          Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market using the

          SCED-Pricing algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Post MCP for Supplemental Reserve for

          Demand Response Resources - Type I is the sum of the (i) Market-Wide Operating

          Reserve Constraint Shadow Price, and (ii) beginning November 1, 2011, additional

          marginal cost of managing transmission congestion, and beginning August 26, 2018,




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                        Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


          additional marginal cost of enforcing Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints, in order

          to supply incremental Supplemental Reserve from the Reference Bus to the Reserve

          Zone. All such constraints noted herein are as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   m.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Up Ramp Capability Market Clearing Prices

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Post Up Ramp Capability MCPs for qualified Resources for each Dispatch Interval in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, using the SCED-Pricing algorithm.

          The Real-Time Ex Post Up Ramp Capability MCP for a Resource is the Ramp

          Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Up Ramp Capability Requirement Constraint

          Shadow Price where the Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Up Ramp

          Capability Constraint is as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   n.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Down Ramp Capability Market Clearing Prices

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the Real-Time Ex

          Post Down Ramp Capability MCPs for qualified Resources for each Dispatch Interval in

          the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, based on the SCED-Pricing

          algorithm. The Real-Time Ex Post Down Ramp Capability MCP for a Resource is the

          Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Down Ramp Capability Requirement

          Constraint Shadow Price where the Ramp Procurement Minimum Reserve Zone Down

          Ramp Capability Constraint is as set forth in Schedule 29A.

   o.     Real-Time Ex Post LMP and Real-Time Ex Post MCP Price Cap. All Real-Time Ex

          Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs will be capped at the Pricing VOLL.

   p.     Determining the Ex Post Regulating Mileage Market Clearing Price




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.2.17
FERC Electric Tariff                        Calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Ex Post MCPs
MODULES                                                                                       57.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Ex Post Regulating Mileage MCPs for

          each Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The Ex

          Post Regulating Mileage MCP is the highest Regulating Mileage Offer among all

          Resources that meet the following criteria: (1) if the Resource has a Day-Ahead

          Schedule for cleared Regulating Reserve, then the Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status in

          the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market must be economic, (2) the

          Regulating Reserve Dispatch Status has to be economic in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, and (3) the Resource has a non-zero Dispatch Target for

          Regulating Reserve in that Dispatch Interval. The Ex Post Regulating Mileage MCP is

          used to settle Additional Regulating Mileage in that Dispatch Interval.

   q.     Determining the Real-Time Ex Post Short-Term Reserve Market Clearing Prices

          On a real-time market basis, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the real-time Ex

          Post Short-Term reserve MCPs for qualified Resources for each Dispatch Interval in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, based on the SCED-Pricing algorithm.

          The real-time Ex Post Short-Term Reserve MCP for a Resource is the applicable Co-

          optimized Zonal Short-Term Reserve Requirement constraint Shadow Price.




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                              40.2.18
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Price Verification
MODULES                                                                                             38.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall continually monitor the various processes associated with the

   calculation of Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs. In the event of a data

   input failure or program failure, corrective actions may be engaged to ensure that the resulting

   Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs are as reasonably accurate as is

   attainable. Where the input data is unavailable, the Transmission Provider shall take all

   reasonable measures to recover the original data for use in the Real-Time Ex Post LMP and

   Real-Time Ex Post MCP calculations respectively. In the event of a program failure, the

   Transmission Provider shall attempt to correct the reason for the failure and to recalculate Real-

   Time Ex Post LMP and Real-Time Ex Post MCP values for the affected intervals. If the

   Transmission Provider is unable to correct the failure and the original data cannot be recovered,

   the Transmission Provider shall use data from the best available alternate data sources including,

   but not limited to, backup systems, dispatcher logs, raw telemetry data, Real-Time Ex Ante

   LMPs and Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs, and Market Participant data sources. In the event of a data

   input or program failure, Real-Time Ex Post LMP and Real-Time Ex Post MCP replacements

   shall be performed as follows:

          a.      Where the stale data or program failure exists for eleven (11) or fewer Dispatch

          Intervals within the same Hour, the affected Dispatch Intervals shall be replaced with

          data from the last successful interval or the next successful Dispatch interval, as

          appropriate, within the same Hour;

          b.      Where the stale data or program failure exists for all Dispatch Intervals within the

          same Hour, the following shall occur:

                  i.      Where the Hour is unconstrained, Operating Reserve is not scarce, Up




                                                                              Effective On: July 31, 2023
MISO                                                                                            40.2.18
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Price Verification
MODULES                                                                                           38.0.0


                 Ramp Capability is not scarce, Down Ramp Capability is not scarce, and Short-

                 Term Reserve is not scarce, the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP and Hourly Real-

                 Time Ex Post MCP values shall be replaced with the loss-adjusted hourly

                 integrated Real-Time Ex Ante LMP and Real-Time Ex Ante MCP; and

                 ii.    Where the system is constrained, Operating Reserve is scarce, Up Ramp

                 Capability is scarce, Down Ramp Capability is scarce, and/or Short-Term Reserve

                 is scarce, the Real-Time Ex Post LMP and Real-Time Ex Post MCP values shall

                 be recalculated using data from the best available sources. The Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMP and Real-Time Ex Post MCP values shall be recalculated for each five-

                 minute Dispatch Interval and then integrated and weighted in accordance with the

                 standard procedure.

          c.     Real-Time Ex Post MCPs and Real-Time Ex Post LMPs will be finalized and

          posted as soon as practicable following the Operating Day and in accordance with the

          timeframes specified in the Business Practices Manuals, except that the finalization and

          posting of such Real-Time Ex Post MCPs and Real-Time Ex Post LMPs shall not exceed

          five (5) Business Days from the applicable Operating Day, or thirteen (13) Calendar Days

          from that Operating Day in the event that the Transmission Provider has posted a notice

          on OASIS declaring a Market Implementation Error or Emergency System Condition

          affecting prices pursuant to Section 48.3.




                                                                            Effective On: July 31, 2023
MISO                                                                                        40.2.18A
FERC Electric Tariff                               Forced-Off Assets Event Declaration and Settlement
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   FOA Event Declaration and Settlement

   A.     Conditions for Declaration of an FOA Event

          The Transmission Provider shall declare the existence of an FOA Event if the

          Transmission Provider determines, in its reasonable discretion, that an extreme event

          (including, but not limited to, a hurricane, ice storm, tornado, earthquake, geomagnetic

          disturbance, or cyber-attack) that occurred or continued after the close of the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Market on a given day has caused the following conditions:

          i.     The following operational impacts:

                 1.      At least ten (10) or more forced transmission outages reported to, or

                         otherwise identified by, the Transmission Provider after the

                         commencement of the event; and

                 2.      An increase of at least ten percent (10%) in the number of dead or

                         disconnected Elemental Pricing Nodes in the Real-Time Energy and

                         Operating Reserve Market as compared to the Hour preceding the

                         commencement of the event, unless the number of disconnected Elemental

                         Pricing Nodes in the Hour preceding the event is less than 100, in which

                         case there must be an increase of at least 10 disconnected Elemental

                         Pricing Nodes; and

          ii.    Revenue inadequacy comprising more than ten percent (10%) of all Market

          Activities for the relevant Operating Day.

   B.     Geographic and Temporal Scopes of an FOA Event Declaration




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                       40.2.18A
FERC Electric Tariff                              Forced-Off Assets Event Declaration and Settlement
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


          The declaration of an FOA Event shall identify the set of Commercial Pricing Nodes

          included in the FOA Event area, and a set of contiguous Hours comprising the duration of

          the FOA Event. At the reasonable discretion of the Transmission Provider, the FOA

          Event area may be defined for the entire market footprint, individual Sub-Regions, Local

          Balancing Authorities, or some other aggregation of Commercial Pricing Nodes.

          The Transmission Provider will determine the beginning of the FOA Event using the

          metrics defined in the previous section (A). The FOA Event shall be deemed to end no

          later than when the subsequent Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market

          modeled Transmission System conditions substantially reflect those in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market. The Transmission Provider may determine that

          the FOA Event has ended before the models for the subsequent Day-Ahead Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market, and the Real-Time Market Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market both substantially reflect the FOA Event’s impact.

   C.     Timetable for Declaration of an FOA Event

          A declaration of an FOA Event shall be made as soon as reasonably possible, and no later

          than fourteen (14) Calendar Days after the relevant Operating Day.

   D.     Settlement Adjustments Based on Declaration of an FOA Event

          i.     Scope of Settlement Adjustments.

                 Settlement adjustments under Schedule 54 – FOA Event Settlement Adjustments,

                 and in accordance with related provisions of the Business Practices Manual for

                 Market Settlements, shall be made to the extent necessary for:




                                                                            Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                       40.2.18A
FERC Electric Tariff                              Forced-Off Assets Event Declaration and Settlement
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                 1.     Forced-Off Assets consisting of Resources and Load Zones located within

                        the area covered by an FOA Event declaration, that were cleared for

                        Energy in the preceding Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                        Market.

                 2.     Virtual Transactions that cleared in the preceding Day-Ahead Energy and

                        Operating Reserve Market and are associated with Commercial Pricing

                        Nodes in the area covered by the FOA Event declaration; and

                 3.     Other affected settlement charge types specified in Schedule 54.

          ii.    Exclusions from FOA Event Settlement Adjustments.

                 The following shall be excluded from FOA Event settlement adjustments:

                 1.     Loads that followed the Transmission Provider’s Load Shedding directives

                        to the respective Local Balancing Authority; and

                 2.     Load reductions resulting from the Transmission Provider’s deployment of

                        Load Modifying Resources and Emergency Demand Response Resources.

          iii.   Timetable for FOA Event Settlement Adjustments.

                 Settlement adjustments performed pursuant to Schedule 54 shall be completed as

                 soon as reasonably possible after the declaration of an FOA Event and included

                 on the Market Settlement Statements for the Operating Day when the FOA Event

                 occurred.

          iv.    Exclusion from Calculation of Certain Charges and Credits

                 Real-time deviations of Forced-Off Assets due to transmission outages caused by

                 an FOA Event shall not be included in the calculation of:




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                        40.2.18A
FERC Electric Tariff                               Forced-Off Assets Event Declaration and Settlement
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


                 1.     Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charges under

                        Section 40.3.3.2 of the Tariff;

                 2.     Day-Ahead Margin Assurance Payment under Schedule 27; and

                 3.     Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges under Section 40.3.4 of

                        the Tariff.

          v.     Settlement Adjustment Process.

                 If the Transmission Provider declares an FOA Event pursuant to the above

                 provisions, the undue financial impacts on the Forced-Off Assets and associated

                 Virtual Transactions in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market of

                 the relevant Operating Day shall be adjusted to the extent necessary in accordance

                 with Schedule 54 – FOA Event Settlement Adjustment.

   E.     Procedure for Declaration and Settlement of an FOA Event

          An FOA Event shall be declared in accordance with the procedure set forth in any

          appropriate Business Practices Manual(s).




                                                                            Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                        40.2.19
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee
MODULES                                                                                      43.0.0


   a.     The Transmission Provider shall ensure the recovery of a Market Participant’s Production

          Cost for Non-Excessive Energy and Operating Reserve Cost for Generation Resources,

          Electric Storage Resources, and Demand Response Resource – Type II committed by the

          Transmission Provider, in any of the RAC processes, or in the LAC process, including

          any RAC process conducted prior to the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, the RAC process conducted the Day prior to the Operating Day, and any intra-

          day RAC processes as scheduled in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, in accordance with Section 40.3.3.3.c. The Transmission Provider shall

          determine on the basis of the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation whether the

          Resource’s costs as specified above are greater than the revenues received for Energy,

          Operating Reserves, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term

          Reserve. If there is a shortfall, the Transmission Provider shall augment the Market

          Participant’s revenue by a Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit that shall be

          funded in accordance with Section 40.3.3.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Market

          Participant shall not receive the portion of a Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

          Credit for any shortfall with respect to Incremental Energy Costs that exceed the Hourly

          Real-Time Ex Post LMP revenue for resources providing Spinning Reserves as a result of

          following a Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction.

   b.     The Transmission Provider shall ensure the recovery of a Market Participant’s Shut-

          Down Offer and Hourly Curtailment Offer for Demand Response Resources – Type I

          committed by the Transmission Provider for Energy or Contingency Reserve in any RAC

          processes, or in the LAC process, including any RAC processes conducted prior to the




                                                                        Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                            40.2.19
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee
MODULES                                                                                          43.0.0


          Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the RAC process conducted the day

          prior to the Operating Day, and any intra-day RAC processes as scheduled in the Real-

          Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, in accordance with Section 40.3.3.3.c. The

          Transmission Provider shall determine on the basis of the SCUC Instructed Hours of

          Operation whether the Resource’s costs as specified above are greater than the revenues

          received for Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability,

          and Short-Term Reserve. If there is a shortfall, the Transmission Provider shall augment

          the Market Participant’s revenue by a Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit

          that shall be funded in accordance with Section 40.3.3.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing,

          the Market Participant shall not receive the portion of a Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

          Guarantee Credit for any shortfall with respect to Shut-Down Offers and/or Hourly

          Curtailment Offers that exceed the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP revenue for resources

          providing Spinning Reserves as a result of following a Contingency Reserve Deployment

          Instruction.

   c.     A FRAC-committed Resource whose commitment is cancelled by the Transmission

          Provider before the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall

          be eligible to recover its Start Up Offer costs in full.




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.2.20
FERC Electric Tariff                   Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Ope
MODULES                                                                                       51.0.0


   Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

   The Transmission Provider shall take the measures set forth below during Capacity shortage

   conditions to maintain reliability within the MISO Balancing Authority Area.

   a.     RAC

          If during any RAC process, the Transmission Provider’s forecast of Real-Time demand

          and Operating Reserve Requirements, either on a MISO Balancing Authority Area basis

          or Sub-Area basis, cannot be satisfied by committing all available non-Emergency

          Capacity, up to Hourly Economic Maximum Limits, up to the Hourly Economic

          Maximum Discharge Limits and Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Levels for Electric

          Storage Resources, and the Forecast Maximum Limit for Dispatchable Intermittent

          Resources, the Transmission Provider shall implement the following procedures:

          i.     Step One. The Transmission Provider shall: incorporate for use in the RAC

                 commitment process, the order of which is specified in the Transmission

                 Provider’s Emergency operating procedures: (i) the Market Participants’ Offers

                 submitted for each Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource - Type II,

                 External Asynchronous Resource, and Hourly Emergency Minimum Energy

                 Storage Level or Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit for an Electric

                 Storage Resource, or the Forecast Maximum Limit for Dispatchable Intermittent

                 Resources, except for Resources selected to provide Regulating Reserve, (ii) the

                 commitment of Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources - Type I, and

                 Demand Response Resources - Type II that are designated as available for

                 Emergency conditions only, and the commitment of Electric Storage Resources




                                                                    Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.20
FERC Electric Tariff                    Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Ope
MODULES                                                                                        51.0.0


                 with a Commitment Status of Emergency Discharge, (iii) the curtailment of

                 Export Schedules, in amounts required to relieve the shortage condition in an

                 economic manner; and (iv) the schedules of External Resources that qualified as

                 Planning Resources.

          ii.    Step Two. If the action under Step One above is not sufficient to relieve the

                 anticipated shortage condition, the Transmission Provider shall declare an EEA-

                 Level 1. In the event that a significant shortage of Operating Reserve is

                 anticipated, the Transmission Provider shall declare an EEA-Level 2 and shall

                 mitigate, but not necessarily eliminate, the Operating Reserve deficiency through

                 use of the following options, the order of which is specified in the Transmission

                 Provider’s Emergency operating procedures: (a) Issuing EDR Dispatch

                 Instructions to EDR Participants based upon EDR Offers submitted (b) initiating

                 Emergency Energy purchases in accordance with the procedures set forth in

                 Section 40.2.22, (c) issuing public appeals to reduce demand as appropriate, (d)

                 directing Local Balancing Authorities to implement voltage reductions, and (e)

                 directing Load Serving Entities to curtail appropriate amounts of Load Modifying

                 Resources.

   b.     Real-Time Dispatch Interval

          During any SCED Dispatch Interval for which the Transmission Provider has previously

          issued an EEA-Level 1 or EEA-Level 2, the Transmission Provider shall implement the

          following procedures to clear the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.2.20
FERC Electric Tariff                   Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Ope
MODULES                                                                                       51.0.0


          i.     For those Resources selected to operate above the Hourly Economic Maximum

                 Limits and Hourly Economic Maximum Discharge Limits and down to the

                 Hourly Minimum Energy Storage Level during the RAC process pursuant to

                 Section 40.2.20.a.i., the Transmission Provider shall use the Market Participant’s

                 Offers for such Resources up to the Hourly Emergency Maximum Limit and

                 Hourly Emergency Maximum Discharge Limit and down to the Hourly Minimum

                 Energy Storage Level in the SCED to calculate Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs and

                 Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs, and shall use the Resource’s Proxy Offers specified in

                 Schedule 29A in the SCED-Pricing to calculate Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and

                 Real-Time Ex Post MCPs which will reflect Scarcity Pricing based upon Demand

                 Curves, if sufficient Operating Reserve is not cleared to meet the Market-Wide

                 Operating Reserve Requirement, if sufficient Up Ramp Capability is not cleared

                 to meet the Market-Wide Up Ramp Capability Requirement, and/or if sufficient

                 Short-Term Reserve is not cleared to meet the Market-Wide Short-Term Reserve

                 Requirement. For scheduled External Resources that qualified as Planning

                 Resources, the Transmission Provider shall also use their Proxy Offers specified

                 in Schedule 29A in the SCED-Pricing to calculate Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and

                 Real-Time Ex Post MCPs.

          ii.    For Load Modifying Resources, Emergency Demand Response resources and

                 Emergency Energy Purchases selected to operate during the RAC process

                 pursuant to Section 40.2.20.a.ii, the Transmission Provider shall use their Proxy




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.2.20
FERC Electric Tariff                   Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Ope
MODULES                                                                                       51.0.0


                 Offers specified in Schedule 29A in the SCED-Pricing to calculate Real-Time Ex

                 Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs

          iii.   If as a result of the Transmission Provider actions pursuant to Section 40.2.20.b.i,

                 Energy balance cannot be achieved, the Transmission Provider shall declare an

                 EEA-Level 3 and may implement Load Shedding pursuant to the Transmission

                 Provider’s Emergency operating procedures. Load Shedding will be implemented

                 on a MISO Balancing Authority Area basis, or a on a Sub-Area basis if limited by

                 transmission constraints or Sub-regional Power Balance Constraints, as required

                 to restore Energy balance. The Load Shedding obligation of each Load Serving

                 Entity shall be implemented through instructions to the affected Local Balancing

                 Authorities as set forth in the protocols of the Balancing Authority Agreement.

                 Load Shedding shall be allocated to each affected Local Balancing Authority on a

                 pro rata, Load Ratio Share basis, determined by the ratio of the total amount of

                 Load Shedding required to achieve Energy balance to the amount of the real-time

                 load remaining, or if the Load Shedding is to occur in the next hour, to the

                 projected load for the next-hour, for the Sub-Area or the entire MISO Balancing

                 Authority Area, as applicable. During Emergency conditions where Load

                 Shedding is instructed by the Transmission Provider when the affected area is the

                 MISO Balancing Authority Area or Sub-Area, Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs, Real-

                 Time Ex Ante MCPs, Real-Time Ex Post LMPs and Real-Time Ex Post

                 Operating Reserve MCPs will be set to the Pricing VOLL, either on a MISO




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.20
FERC Electric Tariff                    Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Ope
MODULES                                                                                        51.0.0


                 Balancing Authority Area basis or Sub-Area basis, as applicable, until the

                 Emergency condition is no longer in effect.

          iv.    When an EEA-Level 3 declared by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section

                 40.2.20.b.iii satisfies any of the following conditions, the Pricing VOLL shall be

                 adjusted as follows:

                 (1)    Once the cumulative duration of the EEA-Level 3 reaches four (4) hours,

                        the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Pricing VOLL as set

                        forth in Sections 40.2.15.p and 40.2.17.o shall be reduced to $5,000/MWh.

                        The cumulative EEA-Level 3 duration is paused when the EEA-Level 3 is

                        exited, but Capacity shortage conditions remain, as declared by the

                        Transmission Provider. The cumulative EEA-Level 3 duration is deemed

                        ended when the Transmission Provider declares an end to Capacity

                        shortage conditions.

                 (2)    If at the time of the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                        Market, the Capacity shortage that led to the declaration of the EEA-Level

                        3 is continuing, the Pricing VOLL shall be reduced to $5,000/MWh. This

                        Pricing VOLL is applied on the next Operating Day for both the Day-

                        Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market (Sections 39.2.9.p and

                        39.2.10.b) and the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                        (Sections 40.2.15.p and 40.2.17.o).

                 (3)    If the Capacity shortage conditions described in sub-paragraph (2) persist

                        at the time of the close of any additional Day-Ahead Energy and




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.2.20
FERC Electric Tariff                    Capacity Shortage Conditions in the Real-Time Energy and Ope
MODULES                                                                                        51.0.0


                         Operating Reserve Market(s), the Pricing VOLL shall be further reduced

                         to $2,000/MWh for both the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                         Market and the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the

                         next Operating Day(s).

                   (4)   After conditions described in sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and/or (3) have

                         ended and the Transmission Provider declares an end to Capacity shortage

                         conditions, the Pricing VOLL shall be reset to the initial value of

                         $10,000/MWh, depending on applicable conditions in sub-parts a and b

                         below:

                         a.       At the end of the current Operating Day, if the Transmission

                                  Provider declares an end to the Capacity shortage conditions

                                  before the close of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

                                  Market.

                         b.       At the end of the next Operating Day, if the Transmission Provider

                                  declares an end to the Capacity shortage conditions after the close

                                  of the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   c.     Notice

          The Transmission Provider shall post on its public website notice of the existence and

          duration of the conditions requiring the implementation of the procedures set forth in this

          Section 40.2.20.




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                      40.2.21
FERC Electric Tariff                  Capacity Surplus under Minimum Load Conditions in Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                     40.0.0


   Capacity Surplus under Minimum Load Conditions in Real-Time Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market:

   The Transmission Provider shall take the measures set forth below during Capacity surplus

   conditions under minimum Load conditions to maintain reliability within the MISO Balancing

   Authority Area.

          a.     RAC

                 If during any RAC process, the Transmission Provider’s forecast of Real-Time

                 demand less Regulating Reserve within the MISO Balancing Authority Area is

                 less than the sum of the minimum non-Emergency supply, the Transmission

                 Provider shall declare an appropriate Emergency alert and implement the

                 following procedures:

                 i.     Step One. The Transmission Provider shall incorporate for use in the

                        RAC commitment process the Market Participants’ Offers submitted for

                        each Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource Type – II, and

                        each Electric Storage Resource with a Commitment Status of Emergency

                        Charge, down to the Hourly Emergency Minimum Charge Limit and

                        Hourly Emergency Maximum Energy Storage Level, and each Distributed

                        Energy Aggregated Resource down to the Hourly Emergency Minimum

                        Injection Limit for an Inject or Emergency Inject Commitment Status or

                        down to the Hourly Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit for a

                        Withdraw, Emergency Withdraw, or Continuous Commitment Status,




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                    40.2.21
FERC Electric Tariff                Capacity Surplus under Minimum Load Conditions in Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                   40.0.0


                       except for Resources selected to provide Regulating Reserve, in amounts

                       required to relieve the surplus condition in an economic manner.

                 ii.   Step Two. The Transmission Provider may economically decommit

                       Resources previously committed by the Transmission Provider based on

                       Market Participants’ Offers.

          b.     Emergency Real-Time Dispatch Interval

                 During any SCED Dispatch Interval:

                 i.    For those Resources selected to operate below their Hourly Economic

                       Minimum Limits, Hourly Economic Minimum Withdrawal Limits, or

                       Hourly Economic Minimum Injection Limits, or above the Hourly

                       Economic Minimum Charge Limit and up to the Hourly Maximum Energy

                       Storage Level during the RAC process pursuant to Section 40.2.21.a, the

                       Transmission Provider shall use the Market Participant’s Offers for such

                       Resources down to the Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit, the Hourly

                       Emergency Minimum Withdrawal Limit, the Hourly Emergency

                       Minimum Injection Limit, or up to the Hourly Emergency Minimum

                       Charge Limit and up to the Hourly Maximum Energy Storage Level in the

                       SCED to calculate Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs and Real-Time Ex Ante

                       MCPs, and in the SCED-Pricing to calculate Real-Time Ex Post LMPs

                       and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs which may reflect Scarcity Pricing based on

                       Demand Curves. SCED-Pricing does not allow partial commitment of




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.2.21
FERC Electric Tariff                   Capacity Surplus under Minimum Load Conditions in Real-Time
MODULES                                                                                      40.0.0


                          Fast Start Resources or Emergency Operations Resources when setting

                          prices.

                 ii.      If Real-Time demand less Regulating Reserve within the MISO Balancing

                          Authority Area is less than the minimum supply during any Dispatch

                          Interval, Scarcity Pricing will be invoked. Real-Time Ex Ante LMPs and

                          Real-Time Ex Post LMPs will be set based on the negative of the

                          Regulating Reserve Scarcity Price as set by the Regulating Reserve

                          Demand Curve, and the Real-Time Ex Ante MCPs for Regulating

                          Reserve and Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for Regulating Reserve will be set

                          based on the Regulating Reserve Scarcity Price as set by the Regulating

                          Reserve Demand Curve.

          c.     Notice

                 The Transmission Provider shall post on its public website notice of the existence

                 and duration of the conditions requiring the implementation of the procedures set

                 forth in this Section 40.2.21.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.2.22
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Emergency Energy Purchases
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


          If the Transmission Provider declares an EEA Level 2 pursuant to Section 40.2.20, the

   Transmission Provider may arrange Emergency Energy purchases for and on behalf of Market

   Participants through applicable MISO Balancing Authority to Balancing Authority agreements in

   an attempt to resolve the declared Emergency Energy event and maintain reliability within the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area. Additionally, the MISO Balancing Authority may arrange

   Emergency Energy sales for and on behalf of Market Participants to other Balancing Authorities

   if requested through applicable MISO Balancing Authority to Balancing Authority agreements.

          Charges to the MISO Balancing Authority for Emergency Energy purchases for and on

   behalf of Market Participants will be recovered from Market Participants with Resources or Load

   that participate in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market and that have Resource

   output below their Day-Ahead Schedules for Energy or Load consumption in excess of their

   Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, on a pro rata basis based upon deviations from Day-Ahead

   Schedules for Energy in such instances. Deviations instructed by the Transmission Provider are

   exempt from charges for Emergency Energy purchases. Credits to the MISO Balancing

   Authority for Emergency Energy sales arranged for and on behalf of Market Participants will be

   distributed to Market Participants in accordance with Section 40.3.3.5.b of the Tariff.




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                          40.2.23
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Contingency Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                        35.0.0


   If during the Operating Day, the Transmission Provider experiences a Generator Forced Outage

   or other abnormal condition that requires the Transmission Provider to deploy Contingency

   Reserve from cleared Resources in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the

   Transmission Provider shall select such Resources for deployment until the Contingency Reserve

   deployment amount is satisfied utilizing the following criteria:

          i.      Contingency Reserve will be deployed on all on-line Generation Resources, on-

                  line Demand Response Resources - Type II, Electric Storage Resources, and

                  Demand Response Resources – Type I that have selected “on-line” as their

                  Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency Reserve status for that

                  Operating Day, External Asynchronous Resources, and Distributed Energy

                  Aggregated Resources in a manner that minimizes the deployment response time;

                  and

          ii.     If the Contingency Reserve deployed under (i) above is not sufficient,

                  Contingency Reserve will be deployed on all off-line Generation Resources, off-

                  line Demand Response Resources - Type II, Electric Storage Resources with a

                  Commitment Status of Available, Demand Response Resources - Type I that have

                  selected “off-line” as their Demand Response Resource – Type I Contingency

                  Reserve status for that Operating Day, and Distributed Energy Aggregated

                  Resources with a Commitment Status of Available, on an economic basis as

                  determined by the Generation Resource’s, Demand Response Resource - Type

                  II’s, Electric Storage Resource’s or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource’s

                  Start-up Offer, No-Load Offer, Minimum Run Time (or Minimum Injection Time




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.2.23
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Contingency Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                    35.0.0


                 for a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource) and Energy Offer curve or the

                 Demand Response Resource - Type I’s Shut-Down Offer, Hourly Curtailment

                 Offer and Minimum Interruption Duration, subject to Reserve Zone import limits.




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.2.24
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Short-Term Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   If during the Operating Day, the Transmission Provider experiences a Generator Forced Outage,

   violation of Short-Term Reserve constraints, or other abnormal condition that requires the

   Transmission Provider to deploy Short-Term Reserve from cleared Resources in the Real-Time

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the Transmission Provider shall select such Resources

   for deployment until the Short-Term Reserve deployment amount is satisfied, utilizing the

   following criteria:

          i.      Short-Term Reserve will be deployed on on-line Resources through the Unit

                  Dispatch System. The Unit Dispatch System will determine the needed Short-

                  Term Reserve response from on-line Resources for each market interval subject to

                  sub-regional and Reserve Zone constraint limits; and

          ii.     If the Short-Term Reserve deployed under (i) above is not sufficient or

                  deliverable, Short-Term Reserve will be deployed by operator commitment of off-

                  line Generation Resources, off-line Demand Response Resources - Type II, and

                  Demand Response Resources - Type I for that Operating Day, on an economic

                  basis as determined by the Generation Resource’s, or Demand Response Resource

                  - Type II’s, Start-up Offer, No-Load Offer, Minimum Run Time and Energy Offer

                  curve or the Demand Response Resource - Type I’s Shut-Down Offer, Hourly

                  Curtailment Offer and Minimum Interruption Duration, subject to sub-regional

                  and Reserve Zone constraint limits.




                                                                         Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                          40.3
FERC Electric Tariff                     Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Settlement
MODULES                                                                                     38.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall provide timely Settlement of purchases and sales of

   Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserves, Supplemental Reserves, Regulating Mileage,

   Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve in the Real-Time Energy

   and Operating Reserve Market. Settlement of the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market will be conducted as described below. Settlement of the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market for purchases and sales of Energy and Operating Reserve is based on:

   (i) applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for Interchange Schedules, and applicable Hourly Real-

   Time Ex Post LMPs for non-Interchange transactions, for Metered MWh values; (ii) applicable

   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for Dispatch Targets for Operating Reserve and Additional

   Regulating Mileage; (iii) applicable Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for Up Ramp Capability

   cleared schedules; (iv) applicable Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for Down Capability cleared

   schedules; and (v) applicable Real-Time Ex Post MCPs for Short-Term Reserve cleared

   schedules. Settlement is performed on quantity deviations from Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Schedules.




                                                                     Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                        40.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Hourly Ex Post LMPs and MCPs
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMPs are the time weighted average of the five (5) minute interval

   Real-Time Ex Post LMPs. Because separate Commercial Pricing Nodes are defined for each

   Resource, Load Zone, Hub, and Interface, Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for Commercial

   Pricing Nodes associated with the same Elemental Pricing Node or Aggregate Price Node may

   differ due to weighting differences. Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCPs are the time and quantity

   weighted average of the Dispatch Interval Real-Time Ex Post MCPs.




                                                                        Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                          40.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Settlement Cal
MODULES                                                                                      89.0.0


   40.3.3 Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Settlement Calculations

          The Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be settled on quantity

   deviations from the Day-Ahead Energy, Operating Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp

   Capability schedules, and Short-Term Reserve schedules with consideration for Real-Time

   Financial Schedules. Settlement for the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market uses

   applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMPs for reported MW or MWh values, and uses applicable Real-

   Time Ex Post MCPs for Dispatch Targets for Operating Reserve, Additional Regulating Mileage,

   Up Ramp Capability, Down Ramp Capability, and Short-Term Reserve. Until Market

   Participants submit their Metered values to be used for injections and withdrawals at each of

   their Commercial Pricing Nodes, the Transmission Provider may estimate values based on the

   best information available at the time of Settlements. A Market Participant’s reported values are

   subject to review and validation by the Transmission Provider for Settlements. For each Hour of

   the Operating Day, the following charges and credits are determined.




                                                                        Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                        46.0.0


   Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Purchases

       a. Energy and Operating Reserve Charges and Credits

             i.   Energy Charges and Credits. Market Participants shall be charged the applicable

                  Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP for any Actual Energy Withdrawals, net of Real-

                  Time Financial Schedules that exceed their Day-Ahead Scheduled Withdrawals

                  (and are credited for the Actual Energy Withdrawals, net of Real-Time Financial

                  Schedules, that are below their Day-Ahead Scheduled Withdrawals). The

                  applicable Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP is the LMP at the Commercial Pricing

                  Node at which the withdrawal (or injection) takes place.

                  If the Market Participant’s Load Zone includes a Forced-Off Asset during an

                  Hour, has a Day-Ahead Schedule to withdraw Energy in that Hour, and has

                  Actual Energy Withdrawal, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, below the

                  Day-Ahead Schedule, the Market Participant shall be charged the product of (1)

                  the difference between the applicable Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP and the

                  applicable Hourly Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP and (2) the minimum of (a) Actual

                  Energy Withdrawal, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, deviation below the

                  Day-Ahead Schedule plus Transmission Provider instructed Load Shedding,

                  deployed Load Modifying Resources, and deployed Emergency Demand

                  Response Resources or (b) zero.

            ii.   Regulating Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of

                  Regulating Reserve in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall

                  be assessed to Load Serving Entities as set forth in Schedule 3.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                          40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                     Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                         46.0.0


           iii.   Spinning Reserve Procurement Charges: Charges for the procurement of

                  Spinning Reserves in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall

                  be assessed to Load Serving Entities and Exporting Entities as set forth in

                  Schedule 5.

           iv.    Supplemental Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of

                  Supplemental Reserves in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                  shall be assessed to Load Serving Entities and Exporting Entities as set forth in

                  Schedule 6.

            v.    Regulation Deployment Adjustment. Market Participants with Resources that are

                  deploying Regulating Reserve in the upward direction over a Dispatch Interval

                  are subject to a charge (or credit if negative) equal to the product of the time-

                  weighted average Regulation Deployment Instruction and the difference between

                  the applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP and the Resource’s Offer Price at the

                  average Dispatch Target for Energy during the Dispatch Interval. Market

                  Participants with Resources that are deploying Regulating Reserve in the

                  downward direction over a Dispatch Interval are subject to a credit (or charge if

                  positive) equal to the product of the time-weighted average Regulation

                  Deployment Instruction and the difference between the applicable Resource Offer

                  Price and Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the average Dispatch Target for Energy

                  during the Dispatch Interval.

           vi.    Regulating Reserve Deployment Cost Allocation. The Transmission Provider

                  shall distribute the net charges/credits from the Settlement of Regulating Reserve




                                                                               Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                        46.0.0


                  Deployment in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, as defined

                  under Section 40.3.3.1.a.viii, pro rata to Market Participants based on the Market

                  Participant’s share of total Actual Energy Withdrawals at all Commercial Pricing

                  Nodes excluding Export Schedules.

           vii.   Regulating Mileage Cost Allocation. A Charge for Additional Regulating

                  Mileage in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market that shall be

                  allocated, pro rata, to Market Participants based on their Market Load Ratio

                  Share, excluding Export Schedules.

          viii.   Revenue Neutrality. The Transmission Provider shall distribute the revenue

                  inadequacy or surplus from the Settlement of Excessive Energy pro rata, to

                  Market Participant Loads based on their Market Load Ratio Share.

       b. Ramp Capability Credits and Charges

             i.   Up Ramp Capability Credits and Charges. Market Participants are credited, for

                  all Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time Ex

                  Post MCP; (2) any positive difference between the Real-Time cleared amount for

                  Up Ramp Capability within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Up Ramp Capability cleared schedule in that Hour; (3) the duration of the

                  Dispatch Interval expressed in Hours (and will be charged, for all Dispatch

                  Intervals in an Hour, the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time Ex Post MCP;

                  (2) any negative difference between the Real-Time cleared amount for Up Ramp

                  Capability within the Dispatch Interval in that Hour and their Day-Ahead Up

                  Ramp Capability cleared schedule in that Hour; (3) the duration of the Dispatch




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                        46.0.0


                  Interval expressed in Hours). The applicable Real-Time Ex Post MCP for Up

                  Ramp Capability is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the procurement

                  occurs.

            ii.   Down Ramp Capability Credits and Charges. Market Participants are credited,

                  for all Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time

                  Ex Post MCP; (2) any positive difference between the Real-Time cleared amount

                  for Down Ramp Capability within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-

                  Ahead Down Ramp Capability cleared schedule in that Hour; (3) the duration of

                  the Dispatch Interval expressed in Hours (and will be charged, for all Dispatch

                  Intervals in an Hour, the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time Ex Post MCP;

                  (2) any negative difference between the Real-Time cleared amount for Down

                  Ramp Capability within the Dispatch Interval in that Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Down Ramp Capability cleared schedule in that Hour; (3) the duration of the

                  Dispatch Interval expressed in Hours). The applicable Real-Time Ex Post MCP

                  for Down Ramp Capability is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the

                  procurement occurs.

           iii.   Ramp Capability Cost Allocation. The Transmission Provider shall distribute the

                  net charges/credits from the Settlement of Ramp Capability in the Day-Ahead

                  Energy and Operating Reserve Market, as defined under Section 39.3.2A.d, and

                  Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, as defined under Section

                  40.3.3.1.b, will be allocated, pro rata, to Market Participants based on their

                  Market Load Ratio Share.




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                       Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                           46.0.0


       c. Short-Term Reserve Credits and Charges

         i.          Short-Term Reserve Credits and Charges. Market Participants are credited, for all

                     Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time Ex

                     Post MCP; (2) any positive difference between the real-time cleared amount for

                     Short-Term Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their day-ahead

                     Short-Term Reserve cleared schedule in that Hour; (3) the duration of the

                     Dispatch Interval expressed in Hours (and will be charged, for all Dispatch

                     Intervals in an Hour, the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time Ex Post MCP;

                     (2) any negative difference between the real-time cleared amount for Short-Term

                     Reserve within the Dispatch Interval in that Hour and their Day-Ahead Short-

                     Term Reserve cleared schedule in that Hour; and (3) the duration of the Dispatch

                     Interval expressed in Hours). The applicable Real-Time Ex Post MCP for Short-

                     Term Reserve is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the procurement

                     occurs.

          ii.        Short-Term Reserve Procurement Charges. Charges for the procurement of

                     Short-Term Reserves in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market

                     shall be assessed to Load Serving Entities and Exporting Entities as set forth in

                     Schedule 51.

       d. Other Market Charges

                i.   Reserve Zone Demand Response Resource Compensation Recovery Charge: For

                     each Reserve Zone and each Dispatch Interval in which the Real-Time Ex Post

                     LMP during a Dispatch Interval in which the DRR is committed for Energy for a




                                                                                Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                       46.0.0


                 given DRR’s CPNode is greater than or equal to the Net Benefits Price Threshold,

                 the Transmission Provider shall recover the total DRR compensation from the

                 Reserve Zone(s) where the DRR that reduces demand during such Dispatch

                 Intervals is located and any other Reserve Zone(s) that also benefits from the

                 reduction in demand. The total DRR compensation for all Dispatch Intervals in

                 an Hour is equal to the sum of the product of: (1) the Real-Time Ex Post LMP for

                 such DRR; (2) the Non-Excessive Energy for such DRR that exceeds their Day-

                 Ahead Schedule for Injection; and (3) the duration of the Dispatch Interval

                 expressed in Hours. The Reserve Zones that benefit are determined by whether

                 an actively Binding Transmission Constraint exists, as reflected by the Hourly Ex

                 Post MCP for an Operating Reserve product within the Reserve Zone in which a

                 DRR is located being unequal to the Hourly Ex Post MCP for that same product

                 in another Reserve Zone (a difference for any product reflecting a Binding

                 Transmission Constraint). The recovery by Reserve Zone shall be as follows:

                 All Binding Constraints:



                 If the transmission constraints associated with the Reserve Zone in which such

                 DRR is located are actively binding with all other Reserve Zones then the

                 Transmission Provider shall recover the total DRR compensation from the

                 Reserve Zone in which such DRR is located.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                       46.0.0


                 No Binding Transmission Constraints or Mixed Transmission Constraint

                 Situation: If the transmission constraints associated with the Reserve Zone in

                 which such DRR is located are not actively binding with all other Reserve Zones,

                 then the Transmission Provider shall recover the total DRR compensation from

                 the Reserve Zone in which the DRR is located along with all other Reserve Zones

                 having the same Hourly Ex Post MCP.



                 When a DRR is located in more than one Reserve Zone and an actively Binding

                 Transmission Constraint exists between the affected Reserve Zones, the total

                 DRR compensation will be apportioned to each affected Reserve Zone, pro rata,

                 based on the DRR’s Actual Energy Injections within each Reserve Zone.



                 The Transmission Provider shall allocate the costs of such DRR compensation

                 pro rata to Market Participants in such Reserve Zone based upon such Market

                 Participant’s share of Real-Time Energy Purchases in the Reserve Zone during

                 such hour.



                 For each Hour for all Reserve Zone(s) included in the cost allocation of DRR

                 compensation, if the Actual Energy Injections, in MWh, of all DRRs exceeds the

                 amount of Real-Time Energy Purchases, in MWh, then the amount of total DRR

                 compensation allocated to Real-Time Energy Purchases will be equal to the

                 product of the (i) total DRR compensation in the Reserve Zone(s) and (ii) the




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reser
MODULES                                                                                      46.0.0


                 quotient of (a) Real-Time Energy Purchases for all Reserve Zone(s) included in

                 the cost allocation of DRR compensation and (b) DRR Actual Energy Injections

                 for all Reserve Zone(s) included in the cost allocation of DRR compensation.



                 Any amount of total DRR compensation that is not recovered from Real-Time

                 Energy Purchases within the Reserve Zone(s) included in the cost allocation of

                 DRR compensation, will be allocated, pro rata, to all Market Participants based

                 on their market-wide Load Ratio Share.




                                                                          Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution

       a. Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge

            i.   For deviations occurring prior to the Notification Deadline, the Real-Time

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge shall be based on

                 the following deviations:

                 (1)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules, any difference between:

                 (a) the greater of (i) the real-time Hourly Economic Minimum Limit in effect at

                 the Notification Deadline and (ii) the Self-Schedule quantity for Energy in effect

                 at the Notification Deadline and (b) the difference between: (i) the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule for Energy and (ii) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve

                 (excluding Resources committed in any RAC processes conducted for the

                 Operating Day, or in the LAC process), when the real-time Hourly Economic

                 Minimum Limit in effect at the Notification Deadline is greater than the Day-

                 Ahead Schedule;

                 (2)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules, any difference between:

                 (a) the sum of: (i) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, (ii) the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule for Regulating Reserve, (iii) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Spinning

                 Reserve, and for Day-Ahead committed Resources, (iv) the Day-Ahead Schedule

                 for Supplemental Reserve, and (b) the Real-Time Hourly Economic Maximum

                 Limit in effect at the Notification Deadline, or for Dispatchable Intermittent




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 Resources, the Notification Deadline DIR Forecast (excluding Resources

                 committed in any RAC processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC

                 process), when the Day-Ahead Schedule is greater than the Real-Time Hourly

                 Economic Maximum Limit in effect at the Notification Deadline or for

                 Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, the Notification Deadline DIR Forecast;

                 (3)    for Load Zones, any difference between: (a) the Day-Ahead Schedule and

                 (b) the Real-Time Load Zone Demand Forecast in effect at the Notification

                 Deadline;

                 (4)    any cleared Virtual Supply Offer or cleared Virtual Bid;

                 (5)    for Import Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction Schedules, any

                 difference between: (a) the real-time Import Schedule in effect at the Notification

                 Deadline and (b) the day-ahead Import Schedule;

                 (6)    for Export Schedules, other than Export Schedules for External

                 Asynchronous Resources and Coordinated Transaction Schedules, any difference

                 between: (a) the day-ahead Export Schedule and (b) the real-time Export

                 Schedule in effect at the Notification Deadline;

                 (7)    any Real-Time Financial Schedule For Deviations for the seller at the

                 Source and any Real-Time Financial Schedule For Deviations for the buyer at the

                 Sink, provided, that, such schedules must be submitted prior to the Notification

                 Deadline in order to be eligible for netting. For these deviations, the Internal

                 Delivery Point of the Real-Time Financial Schedule For Deviations is used to




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 determine the applicable Commercial Pricing Node Constraint Contribution

                 Factor; and

                 (8)    for Demand Response Resources – Type I, any difference between: (a)

                 the Targeted Demand Reduction Level in effect at the Notification Deadline and

                 (b) the Day-Ahead Schedule (excluding Resources committed in any RAC

                 processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC process).

                 (9)    for Intermittent Resources, any difference between: (a) the Real-Time

                 Intermittent Resource Forecast in effect at the Notification Deadline and (b) the

                 Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy.

                 (10)   for Electric Storage Resources with a day-ahead Commitment Status of

                 Discharge or Available, the greater of: (a) any difference between: (i) if the

                 Notification Deadline Commitment Status is Discharge or Available, then the

                 Hourly Economic Minimum Limit at the Notification Deadline, else zero; and (ii)

                 the difference between the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy and the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule for Regulating Reserve; and (b) zero.

                 (11)   for Electric Storage Resources with a day-ahead Commitment Status of

                 Continuous, the greater of: (a) any difference between: (i) if the Notification

                 Deadline Commitment Status is Continuous, then the Hourly Economic

                 Maximum Limit at the Notification Deadline, else zero; and (ii) the difference

                 between the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy and the Day-Ahead Schedule for

                 Regulating Reserve; and (b) zero.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                  (12)   for Electric Storage Resources with a day-ahead Commitment Status of

                  Charge, the lesser of: (a) any difference between: (i) the sum of the Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Energy and the Day-Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve; and

                  (ii) if the Notification Deadline Commitment Status is Charge, then the Hourly

                  Economic Maximum Limit, else zero; and (b) zero.

                  (13)   for Electric Storage Resources with a day-ahead Commitment Status of

                  Discharge, Available or Continuous, the lesser of: (a) any difference between: (i)

                  if the Notification Deadline Commitment Status is Discharge, Available or

                  Continuous, then the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the Notification

                  Deadline, else zero; and (ii) the sum of the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, the

                  Day-Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve, the Day-Ahead Schedule for

                  Spinning Reserve, and the Day-Ahead Schedule for Supplemental Reserve; and

                  (b) zero.

                  (14)   for Electric Storage Resources with a day-ahead Commitment Status of

                  Charge, the greater of: (a) any difference between: (i) the sum of the Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Energy and the Day-Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve; and

                  (ii) if Notification Deadline Commitment Status is Charge, then the Hourly

                  Economic Minimum Limit at the Notification Deadline, else zero; and (b) zero.

            ii.   For deviations occurring after the Notification Deadline, the Real-Time Revenue

                  Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge shall be based on the

                  following deviations to the extent they increase the flow on the Active

                  Transmission Constraint:




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                             Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                        45.0.0


                 (1)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules, any difference between:

                 (a) the real-time hourly Economic Minimum Dispatch and (b) the adjusted Day-

                 Ahead Schedule, where the adjusted Day-Ahead Schedule is equal to the lesser

                 of: (a) the greater of: (i) the greater of (1) the real-time Hourly Economic

                 Minimum Limit in effect at the Notification Deadline and (2) the Self-Schedule

                 quantity of Energy in effect at the Notification Deadline and (ii) the difference

                 between: (1) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy and (2) the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule for Regulating Reserve and (b) the real-time Hourly Economic

                 Maximum Limit in effect at the Notification Deadline, or for Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resources, the Notification Deadline DIR Forecast (excluding

                 Resources committed in any RAC processes conducted for the Operating Day, or

                 in the LAC process), when the real-time hourly Economic Minimum Dispatch is

                 greater than the adjusted Day-Ahead Schedule;

                 (2)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules, any difference between:

                 (a) the adjusted Day-Ahead Schedule and (b) the real-time hourly Economic

                 Maximum Dispatch or for Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, the Hourly

                 Integrated Forecast Maximum Limit. The adjusted Day-Ahead Schedule is equal

                 to the lesser of: (a) the greater of: (i) the greater of (1) the real-time Hourly

                 Economic Minimum Limit in effect at the Notification Deadline and (2) the Self-

                 Schedule quantity for Energy in effect at the Notification Deadline and (ii) the




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 sum of: (1) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, (2) the Day-Ahead Schedule for

                 Regulating Reserve, (3) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Spinning Reserve, and for

                 Day-Ahead committed Resources, (4) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Supplemental

                 Reserve, and (b) the real-time Hourly Economic Maximum Limit in effect at the

                 Notification Deadline, or for Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, the

                 Notification Deadline DIR Forecast (excluding Resources committed in any RAC

                 processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC process), when the

                 adjusted Day-Ahead Schedule is greater than the real-time hourly Economic

                 Maximum Dispatch or for Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, the Hourly

                 Integrated Forecast Maximum Limit;

                 (3)    for Resources (excluding Dispatchable Intermittent Resources) in an Hour

                 with Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy, Excessive Withdrawal, Deficient

                 Withdrawal or any combination thereof in four (4) or more consecutive Dispatch

                 Intervals, the sum of any Excessive Energy or Deficient Energy, or the sum of any

                 Excessive Withdrawal or Deficient Withdrawal, pursuant to Section 40.3.4, in that

                 Hour. For Dispatchable Intermittent Resources in an Hour with Excessive Energy

                 or Deficient Energy in any one (1) Dispatch Interval, the sum of any Excessive

                 Energy or Deficient Energy, pursuant to Section 40.3.4, in that Hour;

                 (4)    for Load Zones, any difference between: (a) the Real-Time Load Zone

                 Demand Forecast in effect at the Notification Deadline and (b) the Actual Energy

                 Withdrawal or to the extent a Load Zone has Actual Energy Injection, Actual




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 Energy Injection, adjusted by Demand Response Resource’s Actual Energy

                 Injections associated with a given Load Zone;

                 (5)    for Import Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction Schedules, any

                 difference between: (a) the real-time Import Schedule and (b) the real-time

                 Import Schedule in effect at the Notification Deadline;

                 (6)    for Export Schedules, other than Export Schedules for External

                 Asynchronous Resources and Coordinated Transaction Schedules, any difference

                 between: (a) the real-time Export Schedule in effect at the Notification Deadline

                 and (b) the real-time Export Schedule;

                 (7)    for Demand Response Resources – Type I, any difference between: (a)

                 the Dispatch Target for Energy and (b) the Targeted Demand Reduction Level in

                 effect at the Notification Deadline; and

                 (8)    for Intermittent Resources, any difference between: (a) the Actual Energy

                 Injection and (b) the Real-Time Intermittent Resource Forecast in effect at the

                 Notification Deadline.

                 (9)    for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Discharge or Available, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of: (a) any

                 difference between: (i) the real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum

                 Dispatch; and (ii) the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit at the Notification

                 Deadline; and (b) zero.

                 (10)   for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Continuous, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of: (a) any difference




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                             Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                        45.0.0


                  between: (i) the real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum Dispatch; and

                  (ii) the greater of the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the Notification

                  Deadline and zero; and (b) zero.

                  (11)   for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                  Charge, the hourly integrated sum of the lesser of: (a) any difference between: (i)

                  the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the Notification Deadline; and (ii) the

                  real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Maximum Dispatch; and (b) zero.

                  (12)   for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                  Discharge, Available or Continuous, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of:

                  (a) any difference between: (i) the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the

                  Notification Deadline; and (ii) the real-time Dispatch Interval Economic

                  Maximum Dispatch; and (b) zero.

                  (13)   for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                  Charge, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of: (a) any difference between: (i)

                  the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit at the Notification Deadline; and (ii) the

                  real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum Dispatch, and; (b) zero.

           iii.   Adjusted Deviation Volume: Each deviation identified pursuant to Sections

                  40.3.3.2.a.i and 40.3.3.2.a.ii shall be evaluated using the applicable Commercial

                  Pricing Node Constraint Contribution Factor to determine if the deviation

                  increased the flow on the Active Transmission Constraint, decreased the flow on

                  the Active Transmission Constraint, or neither increased nor decreased flow on

                  the Active Transmission Constraint, thereby representing a deviation volume that




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 had no impact on the Active Transmission Constraint. Each deviation is then

                 multiplied by the applicable Commercial Pricing Node Constraint Contribution

                 Factor to determine the adjusted deviation, which represents the amount of the

                 resulting increase or decrease in flow on the Active Transmission Constraint.

                 (a) Asset Owner Adjusted Deviations Prior to the Notification Deadline: For

                 deviations occurring prior to the Notification Deadline, the sum, by Asset Owner,

                 of adjusted deviations that increased the flow on the Active Transmission

                 Constraint are reduced to an amount no less than zero by the adjusted deviations

                 that decreased the flow on the Active Transmission Constraint. If the sum of an

                 Asset Owner’s adjusted deviations that increased the flow on the Active

                 Transmission Constraint exceeds the sum of the Asset Owner’s adjusted

                 deviations that decreased the flow on the Active Transmission Constraint, then the

                 difference shall be multiplied by the per unit Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Constraint Management Charge Rate to determine the Real-Time

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge to be paid by the

                 Market Participant for deviations occurring prior to the Notification Deadline.

                 (b) Asset Owner Adjusted Deviations After the Notification Deadline: For

                 deviations occurring after the Notification Deadline, the sum, by Asset Owner, of

                 adjusted deviations that increased the flow on the Active Transmission Constraint

                 shall be multiplied by the per unit Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                 Constraint Management Charge Rate to determine the Real-Time Revenue




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge to be paid by the Market

                 Participant for deviations occurring after the Notification Deadline.

           iv.   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge Rate:

                 The per unit rate of the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint

                 Management Charge for deviations for any given Hour, for any given Active

                 Transmission Constraint, shall equal the quotient of: (1) the product of: (a) the

                 aggregate Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit in that Hour

                 attributed to Resources committed in any RAC processes, or in the LAC process,

                 and (b) the Constraint Management Charge Allocation Factor, pursuant to

                 Schedule 46 and (2) the greater of: (a) the sum of: (i) the aggregate sum, of

                 Asset Owner adjusted deviations determined pursuant to Section 40.3.3.2.a.iii and

                 (ii) any Topology Adjustment or Transmission De-rate adjusted for the applicable

                 Constraint Contribution Factor and (b) the product of: (i) the aggregate of the

                 hourly Economic Maximum Dispatch amounts, adjusted for the applicable

                 Commercial Pricing Node Constraint Contribution Factor, of all Resources

                 committed in any RAC processes, or in the LAC process, and (ii) the Constraint

                 Management Charge Allocation Factor, pursuant to Schedule 46.

                 In the event that the product of: (1) the aggregate Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Credit in any Hour attributed to Resources committed in any RAC

                 processes, or in the LAC process, for the given Active Transmission Constraint

                 and (2) the Constraint Management Charge Allocation Factor, pursuant to

                 Schedule 46, exceeds the sum of (1) the aggregate of the Real-Time Revenue




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charges to Market Participants

                 and (2) the amount attributable to Topology Adjustment and Transmission De-

                 rate for the given Active Transmission Constraint, the difference shall constitute a

                 residual amount not recovered through the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Constraint Management Charge, that shall be allocated, pro rata, to

                 Market Participants based on their Market Load Ratio Share.

                 The amount of Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit in an Hour

                 attributed to Resources committed in any RAC processes, or in the LAC process,

                 but not otherwise attributable to the Active Transmission Constraint, shall be

                 funded through the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead

                 Schedule Deviation Charge and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                 Headroom Charge.

                 The amount of aggregate Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit in

                 that Hour attributed to Resources in any RAC processes, or in the LAC process,

                 but not otherwise attributable to the Active Transmission Constraint is equal to

                 the product of: (1) the aggregate Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                 Credit in any Hour attributed to Resources committed in any RAC processes, or in

                 the LAC process, for the given Active Transmission Constraint and (2) the

                 difference between: (a) one and (b) and the Constraint Management Charge

                 Allocation Factor, pursuant to Schedule 46.

                 The amount attributable to Topology Adjustment and Transmission De-rate for

                 the given Active Transmission Constraint shall equal the product of: (1) any




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 Topology Adjustment or Transmission De-rate adjusted for the applicable

                 Constraint Contribution Factor and (2) the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Constraint Management Charge rate.

       b. Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local

          Reliability Charge

            i.   Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local

                 Reliability Charge: The Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability Charge is based on the sum of Day-

                 Ahead Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour attributable to Day-

                 Ahead Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments, pursuant to Section 39.3.1A,

                 and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in an Hour attributable to

                 Real-Time Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments. The amount attributable

                 to Real-Time Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment for a Resource shall be

                 equal to the product of (a) Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in

                 an Hour for Real-Time Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments and (b) the

                 Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment Allocation Ratio.

                 The Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and

                 Local Reliability Charge shall be assigned to a single Local Balancing Authority

                 Area, or allocated among two or more affected Local Balancing Authority Areas

                 based on their Voltage and Local Reliability Local Balancing Authority Area

                 Shares, as determined in accordance with Section 40.3.3.2.b.iii and Schedule 44.

                 The Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                              Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                         45.0.0


                  Local Reliability Charge thus assigned or allocated to each affected Local

                  Balancing Authority Area shall be assessed pro rata to Market Participants therein

                  based on their Actual Energy Withdrawals at Commercial Pricing Nodes within

                  the Local Balancing Authority Area; provided, however, that in the case of

                  Internal Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load:

                  (a)      The share of Actual Energy Withdrawals attributable to Internal

                           Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load modeled into the affected Local

                           Balancing Authority Area will be excluded from the pro rata assessment.

                  (b)      The share of Actual Energy Withdrawals attributable to Internal

                           Commercially Pseudo-Tied Load modeled out of the affected Local

                           Balancing Authority Area will be included in the pro rata assessment.

            ii.   Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment Allocation Ratio. The Transmission

                  Provider shall determine the proportion of costs associated with Voltage and

                  Local Reliability Commitments via a study of historical market results. The study

                  will be conducted on a periodic basis consistent with procedures set forth in

                  Schedule 44, using a fixed time period. For the relevant historical time period,

                  the study will consider, but is not limited to, the following:

                  (1) Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits paid to

                        Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments,

                  (2) Capacity needed to meet Load and Operating Reserve Requirements, and,

                  (3) The avoided Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                        Credits that would have been paid to Resources that may have been




                                                                                   Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                              Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                         45.0.0


                       committed to meet the Capacity needs in the absence of the Voltage and Local

                       Reliability Commitments.

                  The avoided Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits

                  calculated will be subtracted from the total Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                  Credits in order to determine the total discounted credits. The Voltage and Local

                  Reliability Commitment Allocation Ratio will be calculated as the total

                  discounted credits divided by the total Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits

                  associated with Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments. For historical

                  periods that include dates prior to establishing the Voltage and Local Reliability

                  Commitment provisions under this Tariff, the Transmission Provider will include

                  costs from those Transmission Provider committed Resources that would have

                  been categorized as Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments.

           iii.   Voltage and Local Reliability Local Balancing Authority Area Share Calculation.

                  For all Voltage and Local Reliability Commitments not associated with

                  Commercially Significant Voltage and Local Reliability Issues, the entire share

                  will be allocated to the Local Balancing Authority Area where the Resource exists

                  in the Commercial Model.

                  For Commercially Significant Voltage and Local Reliability Issues, the

                  Transmission Provider will establish procedures in Schedule 44 that govern the

                  administration and settlement calculation of such issues. Upon designating a

                  transmission issue as a Commercially Significant Voltage and Local Reliability

                  Issue, the Transmission provider will determine the percentage allocation to each




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                              Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                         45.0.0


                 affected Local Balancing Authority Area used to calculate the Voltage and Local

                 Reliability Local Balancing Authority Area Share to assign any Revenue

                 Sufficiency Guarantee Charges associated with any Voltage and Local Reliability

                 Commitments. In determining these percentages for affected Local Balancing

                 Authority Areas, the Transmission Provider will:

                 (1) Establish transmission constraints associated with the transmission issue,

                 (2) Determine Constraint Contribution Factors for transmission constraints

                       associated with the transmission issue,

                 (3) Associate Commercial Pricing Nodes, including Load Zones, with the

                       transmission issue based on Constraint Contribution Factors, and

                 (4) Calculate Local Balancing Authority Area Shares based on Load Zone

                       Commercial Pricing Node information associated with the transmission issue.

       c. Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge

          and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge:

          Any residual Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit amount not funded

          through: (i) the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management

          Charge, including any residual amount not recovered through the Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge Rate, (ii) Day-Ahead and Real-

          Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability Charge, or (iii)

          otherwise attributable to Topology Adjustment and Transmission De-rate, shall be funded

          through the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation

          Charge and the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                            45.0.0


             i.   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge: The Real-Time

                  Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge in an Hour is equal to the

                  product of: (i) the lesser of: (1) the Headroom and (2) the aggregate of the hourly

                  Economic Maximum Dispatch amounts of all Resources committed in any RAC

                  processes, or in the LAC process, and (ii) the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                  Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation and Headroom Charge Rate

                  determined in Section 40.3.3.2.c.v. The Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                  Guarantee Headroom Charge will be allocated, pro rata, to Market Participants

                  based on their Market Load Ratio Share.

            ii.   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation

                  Charge. The Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule

                  Deviation Charge shall be calculated and allocated under Sections 40.3.3.2.c.iii,

                  40.3.3.2.c.iv, and 40.3.3.2.c.v.

           iii.   For deviations occurring prior to the Notification Deadline, the Real-Time

                  Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge shall be

                  based on the following deviations:

                  (1)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                  External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules, any difference between:

                  (a) the sum of: (i) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, (ii) the Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Regulating Reserve, (iii) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Spinning

                  Reserve, and for Day-Ahead committed Resources, (iv) the Day-Ahead Schedule

                  for Supplemental Reserve, and (v) the Day-Ahead Schedule for Short-Term




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 Reserve, and (b) the real-time Hourly Economic Maximum Limit in effect at the

                 Notification Deadline, or for Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, the

                 Notification Deadline DIR Forecast (excluding Resources committed in any RAC

                 processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC process);

                 (2)    for Load Zones, any difference between (a) the Real-Time Load Zone

                 Demand Forecast in effect at the Notification Deadline and (b) the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule;

                 (3)    for Import Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction Schedules, any

                 difference between (a) the day-ahead Import Schedule and (b) the real-time

                 Import Schedule in effect at the Notification Deadline;

                 (4)    for Export Schedules, other than Export Schedules for External

                 Asynchronous Resources and Coordinated Transaction Schedules, any difference

                 between (a) the real-time Export Schedule in effect at the Notification Deadline

                 and (b) the day-ahead Export Schedule;

                 (5)    any Virtual Transaction resulting from a cleared Virtual Supply Offer or

                 the negative of any Virtual Transaction resulting from a cleared Virtual Bid;

                 (6)    the negative of any Real-Time Financial Schedule For Deviations for the

                 buyer at the Sink and any Real-Time Financial Schedule For Deviations for the

                 seller at the Source; and

                 (7)    for Demand Response Resources – Type I, any difference between: (a)

                 the Day-Ahead Schedule and (b) the Targeted Demand Reduction Level in effect




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 at the Notification Deadline (excluding Resources committed in any RAC

                 processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC process);

                 (8)     for Intermittent Resources, any difference between (a) the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule for Energy and (b) the Real-Time Intermittent Resource Forecast in

                 effect at the Notification Deadline.

                 (9)     for Electric Storage Resources with a day-ahead Commitment Status of

                 Discharge, Available or Continuous and a Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy less

                 than zero, any difference between: (a) the sum of the Day-Ahead Schedule for

                 Energy, the Day-Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve, the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule for Spinning Reserve, the Day-Ahead Schedule for Supplemental

                 Reserve, and the Day-Ahead Schedule for Short-Term Reserve; and (b) if the

                 Notification Deadline Commitment Status is Discharge, Available or Continuous,

                 then the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the Notification Deadline, else

                 zero.

           iv.   For deviations occurring after the Notification Deadline, the Real-Time Revenue

                 Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge shall be based on

                 the following deviations:

                 (1)     for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules committed in any RAC

                 processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC process, any positive

                 difference between (a) the real-time Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the

                 time the Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, and




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                      40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                          Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                     45.0.0


                 External Asynchronous Resource is committed by the Transmission Provider and

                 (b) the real-time hourly Economic Maximum Dispatch;

                 (2)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules committed in any RAC

                 processes conducted for the Operating Day, or in the LAC process, any positive

                 difference between (a) the real-time hourly Economic Minimum Dispatch and (b)

                 the real-time Hourly Economic Minimum Limit at the time the Generation

                 Resource, Demand Response Resource – Type II, and External Asynchronous

                 Resource is committed by the Transmission Provider;

                 (3)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules not committed in any

                 RAC processes, or in the LAC process, conducted for the Operating Day, any

                 positive difference between (a) the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit in effect at

                 the Notification Deadline and (b) the real-time hourly Economic Maximum

                 Dispatch;

                 (4)    for Generation Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type II, and

                 External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules not committed in any

                 RAC processes, or in the LAC process, conducted for the Operating Day, any

                 positive difference between (a) the real-time hourly Economic Minimum Dispatch

                 and (b) the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit in effect at the Notification

                 Deadline;




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 (5)    for Resources (excluding Dispatchable Intermittent Resources) in an Hour

                 with Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy, Excessive Withdrawal, Deficient

                 Withdrawal or any combination thereof in four (4) or more consecutive Dispatch

                 Intervals, the sum of any Excessive Energy or Deficient Energy, or the sum of any

                 Excessive Withdrawal or Deficient Withdrawal, pursuant to Section 40.3.4, in that

                 Hour. For Dispatchable Intermittent Resources in an Hour with Excessive Energy

                 or Deficient Energy in any one (1) Dispatch Interval, the sum of any Excessive

                 Energy or Deficient Energy, pursuant to Section 40.3.4, in that Hour;

                 (6)    for Load Zones, the positive value of any difference between (a) the

                 Actual Energy Withdrawal or to the extent a Load Zone has Actual Energy

                 Injection, Actual Energy Injection, adjusted by any Demand Response Resource’s

                 Actual Energy Injections associated with a given Load Zone, and (b) the Real-

                 Time Load Zone Demand Forecast in effect at the Notification Deadline;

                 (7)    for Import Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction Schedules, the

                 positive value of any difference between (a) the real-time Import Schedule in

                 effect at the Notification Deadline and (b) the real-time Import Schedule;

                 (8)    for Export Schedules, other than Export Schedules for External

                 Asynchronous Resources and Coordinated Transaction Schedules, the positive

                 value of any difference between (a) the real-time Export Schedule and (b) the

                 real-time Export Schedule in effect at the Notification Deadline;




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 (9)     for Demand Response Resources – Type I, the positive value of any

                 difference between: (a) the Targeted Demand Reduction Level in effect at the

                 Notification Deadline and (b) the Dispatch Target for Energy; and

                 (10)    for Intermittent Resources, the positive difference between (a) the Real-

                 Time Intermittent Resource Forecast in effect at the Notification Deadline and (b)

                 the Actual Energy Injection.

                 (11)    for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Discharge or Available, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of: (a) any

                 difference between the real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum Dispatch

                 and the Hourly Economic Minimum Limit at the Notification Deadline; and (b)

                 zero.

                 (12)    for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Continuous, the hourly integrated sum of the of the greater of: (a) any difference

                 between the real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum Dispatch and the

                 greater of: (i) the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the Notification Deadline;

                 and (ii) zero; and (b) zero.

                 (13)    for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Charge, the hourly integrated sum of the lesser of: (a) any difference between the

                 Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the Notification Deadline and the real-time

                 Dispatch Interval Economic Maximum Dispatch; and (b) zero.

                 (14)    for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Discharge, Available or Continuous, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of:




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                             Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                        45.0.0


                 (a) any difference between the Hourly Economic Maximum Limit at the

                 Notification Deadline and the real-time Dispatch Interval Economic Maximum

                 Dispatch; and (b) zero.

                 (15)    for Electric Storage Resources with a real-time Commitment Status of

                 Charge, the hourly integrated sum of the greater of: (a) any difference between the

                 Hourly Economic Minimum Limit at the Notification Deadline and the real-time

                 Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum Dispatch; and (b) zero.

                 The sum, by Asset Owner, of: (1) the net positive sum of the Asset Owner’s

                 deviations pursuant to Section 40.3.3.2.c.iii and (2) the sum of such Asset

                 Owner’s deviations pursuant to Section 40.3.3.2.c.iv shall be multiplied by the per

                 unit Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation

                 Charge Rate to determine the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-

                 Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge to be paid by the Market Participant.

            v.   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation

                 Charge Rate and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge

                 Rate: The per unit rate of the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-

                 Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge and the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Headroom Charge for any given Hour shall depend on:

                 Market-Wide Net Deviations: Equal to the aggregate sum of all amounts pursuant

                 to Sections 40.3.3.2.c.iii and 40.3.3.2.c.iv.

                 Headroom Need: Equal to the greater of: (1) Unloaded Capacity Requirement and

                 (2) sixty percent of hourly Load change.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 Economically Committed Capacity: Equal to the aggregate of the hourly

                 Economic Maximum Dispatch amounts of all Resources committed in any RAC

                 processes, or in the LAC process; minus the sum of: (a) the product of (1) the

                 aggregate of the hourly Economic Maximum Dispatch amounts of all Resources

                 committed in any RAC processes, or in the LAC process, to manage an Active

                 Transmission Constraint; and (2) the Constraint Management Charge Allocation

                 Factor, pursuant to Schedule 46; and (b) the product of (1) the aggregate of the

                 hourly Economic Maximum Dispatch amounts of all Resources committed for

                 Voltage and Local Reliability in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Market and (2) the Voltage and Local Reliability Commitment Allocation Ratio,

                 pursuant to Schedule 44.

                 Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation and Headroom Credit: If the sum of (i) the

                 Market-Wide Net Deviations; and (ii) Headroom Need is less than or equal to

                 zero, the Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation and Headroom Credit is equal to zero.

                 If the sum of: (i) the Market-Wide Net Deviations; and (ii) Headroom Need is

                 greater than or equal to the Economic Committed Capacity, the Day-Ahead

                 Schedule Deviation and Headroom Credit is equal to the aggregate residual Real-

                 Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit amount not funded through (i) the

                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge,

                 including any residual amount not recovered through the Real-Time Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Constraint Management Charge Rate, (ii) the Day-Ahead and Real-




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                           Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                      45.0.0


                 Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability Charge, or

                 (iii) otherwise attributable to Topology Adjustment or Transmission De-rate.

                 If the sum of (i) the Market-Wide Net Deviations; and (ii) Headroom Need is

                 greater than zero, but less than the Economic Committed Capacity, the Day-

                 Ahead Schedule Deviation and Headroom Credit is equal to the product of (i) the

                 sum of (a) the Market-Wide Net Deviations and (b) Headroom Need; and (ii) the

                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Market-Wide Net Rate.

                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Market-Wide Net Rate: Equal to the

                 quotient of: (1) the aggregate residual Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                 Credit amount not funded through: (i)the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Constraint Management Charge, including any residual amount not

                 recovered through the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint

                 Management Charge Rate, (ii) Day-Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability Charge, or (iii) otherwise attributable to

                 Topology Adjustment or Transmission De-rate and (2) the Economically

                 Committed Capacity.

                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation

                 Charge Rate and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom Charge

                 Rate: The per unit rate of the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-

                 ahead Deviation Charge and the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                 Headroom Charge for any given Hour shall equal the quotient of : (1) the Day-

                 Ahead Schedule Deviation and Headroom Credit and (2) the greater of: (a) the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


                 sum of: (i) aggregate net positive sum, by Asset Owner, for such amounts

                 pursuant to Sections 40.3.3.2.c.iii and 40.3.3.2.c.iv and (ii) Headroom and (b) the

                 Economically Committed Capacity.

       d. Residual Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit Distribution

          In the event that the aggregate residual Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit

          amount not funded through: (i) the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint

          Management Charge, including any residual amount not recovered through the Real-

          Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Constraint Management Charge Rate, (ii) Day-

          Ahead and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Voltage and Local Reliability

          Charge, or (iii) otherwise attributable to Topology Adjustment and Transmission De-rates

          in any Hour exceeds the aggregate of the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

          Day-Ahead Schedule Deviation Charge and Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

          Headroom Charge to Market Participants, the Transmission Provider shall allocate the

          excess, along with any amount attributable to Topology Adjustment, Transmission De-

          rate, Headroom, and commitment cancellations issued by the Transmission Provider, pro

          rata, to Market Participants based on their Market Load Ratio Share.

       e. Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution Exemptions

          A Market Participant shall not be allocated Real Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

          Constraint Management Charges, Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Day-Ahead

          Schedule Deviation Charges, or Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Headroom

          Charges for deviations occurring as the result of the following exceptions: (1) deviations

          caused or occurring during the Hour(s) when a Resource is deployed for Contingency




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                            Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Distribution
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


          Reserves; (2) Deviations of Resources, Load Zones and Interchange Schedules supported

          by firm Transmission Service, caused by or occurring as a result of Transmission

          Provider directives during an Emergency; (3) Resource deviations caused or occurring

          during abnormal operating conditions caused directly and exclusively by the failures or

          malfunctions of the Transmission Provider software or hardware systems; (4) Intermittent

          Resource deviations caused by or occurring as a result of Transmission Provider manual

          curtailment instructions; (5) deviations resulting from compliance with Transmission

          Provider directives (particularly those relating to Transmission Loading Relief

          Procedures or “TLR”) in the case of Interchange Schedules supported by firm

          Transmission Service; or (6) deviations of Forced-Off Assets occurring during Hour(s)

          when a Resource or Load Zone is located in an FOA Event area.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


   Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Sales

       a. Real-Time Energy Credits

            i.   Non-Excessive Energy Credits. Market Participants are credited the applicable

                 Real-Time Ex Post LMP for Non-Excessive Energy for Generation Resources,

                 Electric Storage Resources, and External Asynchronous Resources for Import

                 Schedules pursuant to Section 40.3.4, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, that

                 exceeds their Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy (and will be charged for Non-

                 Excessive Energy, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, deviations below their

                 Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy). The applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP is the

                 LMP at the Commercial Pricing Node at which the injection occurs.

                       A.       A Commercial Pricing Node will be established for a SATOA.

                       Non-Excessive Energy Credits for Storage as Transmission Only Asset.

                       Market Participants are credited the applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP for

                       Non-Excessive Energy for Storage as Transmission Only Assets (and will

                       be charged for Non-Excessive Energy withdrawals). The applicable Real-

                       Time Ex Post LMP is the LMP at its Commercial Pricing Node at which the

                       injection (or withdrawal) occurs. The Market Activity at a SATOA’s

                       Commercial Pricing Node will be limited to the charging and discharging

                       necessary for the SATOA to meet or be ready to mitigate the identified

                       Transmission Issue for which the SATOA was included in the MTEP or

                       selected in the MTEP for purposes of cost allocation.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                        54.0.0


                       B.       If the Resource (excluding an Electric Storage Resource with a

                       Day-Ahead Schedule to withdraw Energy) is a Forced-Off Asset during an

                       Hour, has a Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy in that Hour, and has no Actual

                       Energy Injection, the Resource will be credited the difference between the

                       Real-Time Ex Post LMP and the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP for Non-

                       Excessive Energy, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, deviations below

                       its Day-Ahead Schedule.

                       If an Electric Storage Resource is a Forced-Off Asset during an Hour, has a

                       Day-Ahead Schedule to withdraw Energy in that Hour, and has no Actual

                       Energy Injection, the Electric Storage Resource will be charged the

                       difference between the Real-Time Ex Post LMP and the Day-Ahead Ex Post

                       LMP for Non-Excessive Energy, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules,

                       deviations below its Day-Ahead Schedule. If the Electric Storage Resource

                       was designated during registration as paying retail rates for its charging

                       energy, it will be fully rebated for its wholesale charging energy through the

                       standard settlement process implemented in compliance with FERC Order

                       No. 841. Therefore, no additional charge shall be necessary for such

                       Electric Storage Resource.

            ii.   Excessive Energy Credits. Market Participants are credited the Dispatch Interval

                  Excessive Energy Price for Excessive Energy, as calculated pursuant to Section

                  40.3.4, and charged the Dispatch Interval Excessive Withdrawal Price for

                  Excessive Withdrawal where there is Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy,




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 Excessive Withdrawal, Deficient Withdrawal or any combination thereof in four

                 (4) or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in a specific Hour for all Resources

                 except Dispatchable Intermittent Resources. For Dispatchable Intermittent

                 Resources Market Participants are credited the Dispatch Interval Excessive

                 Energy Price for Excessive Energy, as calculated pursuant to Section 40.3.4, in

                 each Dispatch Interval in which there is Excessive Energy. The Dispatch Interval

                 Excessive Energy Price for Generation Resources (except Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resources), Demand Response Resource – Type I, Demand Response

                 Resource – Type II, External Asynchronous Resource, and Electric Storage

                 Resource is the lesser of (1) the Real-Time Ex Post LMP and (2) the greater of (a)

                 the Energy Offer at the Dispatch Target and (b) zero.

                 The Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Price for Dispatchable Intermittent

                 Resources is the lesser of: (1) the Real-Time Ex Post LMP and (2) the Energy

                 Offer at the Dispatch Target.

                 The Dispatch Interval Excessive Withdrawal Price for an Electric Storage

                 Resource is the greater of: (1) the maximum of the Energy Offer at the Dispatch

                 Target and zero, and (2) the maximum of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP and zero.

       b. Real-Time Operating Reserve and Regulating Mileage Credits

            i.   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Regulating Mileage Sales

                 Definitions. For the purposes of calculating credits for Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market Regulating Mileage Sales, the following terms are

                 calculated as follows:




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 Instructed Total Mileage is calculated as the sum of the absolute values of up and

                 down movement during a Dispatch Interval, in MW, that a resource is asked to

                 provide in response to Setpoint Instructions using the resource’s applicable ramp

                 rate.

                 Instructed Energy Mileage is calculated as the sum of the absolute values of the

                 up and down movement during a Dispatch Interval, in MW, that a resource is

                 asked to provide in response to Energy Dispatch Targets and Contingency

                 Reserve Deployment Instructions using a resource’s applicable ramp rate.

                 Instructed Regulating Mileage is calculated as the difference between Instructed

                 Total Mileage and Instructed Energy Mileage for each Dispatch Interval.

                 Regulating Mileage Target is calculated as the minimum of the Instructed

                 Regulating Mileage and the Desired Resource Response for a Dispatch Interval.

                 Additional Regulating Mileage is calculated as the positive difference between the

                 Regulating Mileage Target for a Resource and the Regulating Mileage considered

                 in the Regulating Total Cost for the Resource during a Dispatch Interval.

                 Undeployed Regulating Mileage is calculated as the positive difference between

                 the Regulating Mileage considered in the Regulating Total Cost for a Resource

                 and the Regulating Mileage Target for the Resource during a Dispatch Interval.

                 The Regulating Mileage considered in the Regulating Total Cost for a Resource

                 during a Dispatch Interval is equal to the Regulating Reserve Dispatch Target

                 multiplied by the Market-wide Regulating Mileage Deployment Ratio.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                        54.0.0


                  The Transmission Provider shall update the Market-wide Regulating Deployment

                  Ratio each month for the upcoming month to reflect changes in actual regulation

                  deployment. The study will use data from the 15th of the previous month to the

                  15th of the current month to calculate the Market-wide Regulating Mileage

                  Deployment Ratio that is effective starting the first of the upcoming month. The

                  Market-wide Regulating Mileage Deployment Ratio is equal to the average of the

                  ratio between the Regulating Mileage Target in a Dispatch Interval and the

                  Regulating Reserve Dispatch Target in that Dispatch Interval for all Resources for

                  all Dispatch Intervals with non-zero Regulating Reserve Dispatch Targets.

            ii.   Regulating Reserve Credit. Market Participants are credited the Real-Time Ex

                  Post MCP for any positive difference between the Real-Time cleared amounts for

                  Regulating Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Regulating Reserve in that Hour (and will be charged the Ex Post

                  MCP for any negative difference between the Real-Time cleared amounts for

                  Regulating Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Regulating Reserve in that Hour). The applicable Ex Post MCP for

                  Regulating Reserve is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the procurement

                  occurs. The Regulating Reserve Credit will be reduced by the product of the Ex

                  Post MCP for Regulating Mileage and Undeployed Regulating Mileage for each

                  Dispatch Interval in the Hour. The sum of Regulating Reserve Credits in the

                  Hour will also be augmented by the Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue

                  Sufficiency Guarantee Credit as set forth in Schedule 3.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


           iii.   Spinning Reserve Credits. Market Participants are credited the Real-Time Ex

                  Post MCP for any positive difference between the Real-Time cleared amounts for

                  Spinning Reserve within the Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Spinning Reserve in that Hour (and will be charged the Real-Time

                  Ex Post MCP for any negative difference between the Real-Time cleared amounts

                  for Spinning Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Spinning Reserve in that Hour). The applicable Ex Post MCP for

                  Spinning Reserve is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the procurement

                  occurs.

           iv.    Supplemental Reserve Credits. Market Participants are credited the Real-Time

                  Ex Post MCP for any positive difference between the Real-Time cleared amounts

                  for Supplemental Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-

                  Ahead Schedule for Supplemental Reserve in that Hour (and will be charged for

                  any negative difference between the Real-Time cleared amounts for Supplemental

                  Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour less their Day-Ahead Schedule for

                  Supplemental Reserve in that Hour). The applicable Real-Time Ex Post MCP for

                  Supplemental Reserve is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the

                  procurement occurs.

            v.    Regulating Mileage Credit. Market Participants are credited the Hourly Real-

                  Time Ex Post Regulating Mileage MCP for the sum of Additional Regulating

                  Mileage for each Dispatch Interval in an Hour.




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                        54.0.0


           vi.    Short-Term Reserve Credits. Market Participants are credited the Real-Time Ex

                  Post MCP for any positive difference between the real-time cleared amounts for

                  Short-Term Reserve within the Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-Ahead

                  Schedule for Short-Term Reserve in that Hour (and will be charged the Real-Time

                  Ex Post MCP for any negative difference between the real-time cleared amounts

                  for Short-Term Reserve within a Dispatch Interval in an Hour and their Day-

                  Ahead Schedule for Short-Term Reserve in that Hour). The applicable Ex Post

                  MCP for Short-Term Reserve is for the Commercial Pricing Node at which the

                  procurement occurs.

       c. Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit. The Transmission Provider shall

          determine, on a daily basis, whether any Generation Resource, Demand Response

          Resource, or Electric Storage Resource committed by the Transmission Provider in the

          Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market did not recover the sum of the

          Resource’s eligible Production Cost and Operating Reserve Cost through the revenue

          received through the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market during the SCUC-

          Instructed Hours of Operation.

          In addition, the Transmission Provider shall determine on an hourly basis whether

          External Asynchronous Resources Export Schedule charges are greater than the energy

          value for export, calculated as the area under the Energy Offer curve for export Energy.

          If there is a shortfall, the Transmission Provider shall augment the Market Participant’s

          revenue with a Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit, pursuant to Section

          40.3.3.3.c.iii.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                        Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                         54.0.0


            i.   Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Full Payment Criteria. In order to be

                 eligible for full payment of Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit, all

                 Hours in the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation for a Resource (except an

                 Electric Storage Resource) must comply with the following requirements,

                 provided that the specified Offer data shall include any overrides entered by the

                 Transmission Provider at the request of the Market Participant that owns or

                 represents the Resource:

                 (a) The Resource must not receive an Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment

                 Charge, pursuant to Section 40.3.4, during an Hour. Any Resource receiving an

                 Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge in an Hour will be subject to a

                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit reduction, pursuant to Section

                 40.3.3.3.c.ii.b, for that Hour and all remaining contiguous Hours in the Real-Time

                 SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation.

                 (b) For all Resources other than Demand Response Resource Type-I, the real-

                 time Economic Minimum Dispatch must be less than or equal to the maximum of:

                 (i) the as-committed Hourly Economic Minimum Limit; (ii) the as-committed

                 self-schedule MW for instances where the Energy Dispatch Status is self-

                 schedule; or (iii) the as-committed Hourly Regulation Minimum for instances

                 where the Resource is scheduled to potentially provide Regulating Reserve. For

                 Demand Response Resource - Type I, the real-time Dispatch Target for Energy

                 must be less than or equal to the as committed Targeted Demand Reduction

                 Level. This criterion will be checked for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 and for each Hour of the contiguous Real-Time SCUC Instructed Hours of

                 Operation, sequentially. If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an

                 Hour fail to meet this criterion, the Resource will be subject to a Real-Time

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit reduction, pursuant to Section

                 40.3.3.3.c.ii.b, for that Hour and all remaining contiguous Hours in the Real-Time

                 SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation.

                 (c) In addition, for Resources where all limits used in the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market within the Dispatch Interval have a dispatch range of

                 greater than 1MW, the following criteria must also be satisfied:

                 (i)    The Real-Time ramp rate utilized by the Unit Dispatch System (UDS)

                 must be greater than 0.5 MW/minute.

                 (ii)   The Real-Time ramp rate utilized by the Unit Dispatch System must be

                 greater than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the real-time Hourly Economic

                 Maximum Limit of the Generation Resource or Demand Response Resource-

                 Type II per minute and non-decreasing except where:

                 (1)    Resource output is greater than or equal to ninety percent (90%) of the

                 real-time Hourly Economic Maximum Limit as determined by the Unit Dispatch

                 System, then real-time ramp rate utilized by the Unit Dispatch System must be

                 greater than one-half (0.5) MW/minute.

                 (2)    Resource output is less than or equal to the real-time Hourly Economic

                 Minimum Limit plus ten percent (10%) of the real-time Hourly Economic

                 Maximum Limit as determined by the Unit Dispatch System, in which case the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                        54.0.0


                  real-time ramp rate utilized by the Unit Dispatch System must be greater than

                  one-half (0.5) MW/minute.

                  (iii)   These criteria will be checked for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour

                  and for each contiguous Hour of the SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation,

                  sequentially. If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an Hour fail to

                  meet these criteria, the Resource will be subject to a Real-Time Revenue

                  Sufficiency Guarantee Credit reduction, pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.c.ii.b, for

                  that Hour and the subsequent Hours of the Real-Time SCUC Instructed Hours of

                  Operation.

                  (d) For all Resources other than Demand Response Resource Type-I, the

                  Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status must be

                  Economic. This criterion will be checked for each Dispatch Interval within the

                  Hour and for each Hour of the contiguous Real-Time SCUC Instructed Hours of

                  Operation, sequentially. If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an Hour

                  fail to meet this criterion, the Resource will be subject to a Real-Time Revenue

                  Sufficiency Guarantee Credit reduction, pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.c.ii.b, for

                  that Hour and all remaining contiguous Hours in the Real-Time SCUC Instructed

                  Hours of Operation.

            ii.   Calculation of Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit for Real-Time

                  SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation

                  (a)     Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Full Payment: Resources that satisfy the

                  Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Full Payment Criteria described in




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 Section 40.3.3.3.c.i shall receive a Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee

                 Credit for the Real-Time SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation in the current

                 Operating Day, as described below.

                 If the sum of the Generation Resource’s or Demand Response Resource’s

                 Production Cost (based on Non-Excessive Energy) and Operating Reserve Cost is

                 greater than the revenue over each contiguous commitment period for that

                 Resource, then the Market Participant’s Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

                 Market credits shall be augmented by an additional credit called the Real-Time

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit in the amount of the revenue shortfall,

                 spread over all the Hours in that contiguous commitment period. The

                 determination of such credit shall consider only Operating Reserve Costs

                 associated with real-time Operating Reserves volumes that are greater than the

                 day-ahead Operating Reserve volumes. The revenue shall be calculated as the

                 sum of the following values:

                 (i)    Energy Revenue. For Generation Resources and Demand Response

                 Resources, as determined, for all Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, by the sum of the

                 products of: (1) the Non-Excessive Energy; (2) the Real-Time Ex Post LMP; and

                 (3) the duration of the Dispatch Interval expressed in Hours;

                 (ii)   Operating Reserve Revenue. The sum of: real-time Regulating Reserve

                 revenue as determined by the sum, for all Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, of the

                 products of: (1) the real-time Regulating Reserve volume; (2) the real-time

                 Regulating Reserve Ex Post MCP; and (3) the duration of the Dispatch Interval




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 expressed in Hours; and the sum, as determined as follows, of the real-time

                 Contingency Reserve revenue for all Dispatch Intervals in the real-time SCUC

                 Instructed Hours of Operation, plus any applicable Minimum Down Time

                 requirements in the current Operating Day: (a) If the day-ahead Contingency

                 Reserve volume is greater than zero and greater than the real-time Contingency

                 Reserve volume, the real-time Contingency Reserve revenue is determined by the

                 product of: (1) the real-time Contingency Reserve volume minus the day-ahead

                 Contingency Reserve volume; (2) the real-time Contingency Reserve Ex Post

                 MCP minus the day-ahead Contingency Reserve offer cost; and (3) the duration

                 of such Dispatch Intervals expressed in Hours; (b) If the day-ahead Contingency

                 Reserve volume is greater than zero and less than or equal to the real-time

                 Contingency Reserve volume, the real-time Contingency Reserve revenue is

                 determined by the product of: (1) the real-time Contingency Reserve volume

                 minus the day-ahead Contingency Reserve volume; (2) the real-time Contingency

                 Reserve Ex Post MCP; and (3) the duration of such Dispatch Intervals expressed

                 in Hours; (c) If the day-ahead Contingency Reserve volume is equal to zero, the

                 real-time Contingency Reserve revenue is determined by the product of: (1) the

                 real-time Contingency Reserve volume; (2) the real-time Contingency Reserve Ex

                 Post MCP; and (3) the duration of such Dispatch Intervals expressed in Hours.

                 (iii)   Regulating Reserve Deployment Revenue. Real-time Regulating Reserve

                 Deployment revenue as determined, for all Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, by the

                 sum of the product of: (1) the Regulating Reserve Deployment charge/credit




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 determined pursuant to Section 40.3.3.1.a.vi; and (2) the duration of the Dispatch

                 Intervals expressed in Hours.

                 (iv)    Ramp Capability Revenue. Ramp Capability Revenue as determined for

                 the Hour by the sum of (a) the Up Ramp Capability Credit pursuant to Section

                 40.3.3.1.b.i; and (b) the Down Ramp Capability Credit pursuant to Section

                 40.3.3.1.b.ii.

                 (v) Short-Term Reserve Revenue. The Short-Term Reserve revenue is the sum, as

                 determined as follows, of the real-time Short-Term Reserve revenue for all

                 Dispatch Intervals in the real-time SCED Instructed Hours of Operation, plus any

                 applicable Minimum Down Time requirements in the current Operating Day: (a)

                 If the day-ahead Short-Term Reserve volume is greater than zero and greater than

                 the real-time Short-Term Reserve volume, the real-time Short-Term Reserve

                 revenue is determined by the product of: (1) the real-time Short-Term Reserve

                 volume minus the day-ahead Short-Term Reserve volume; (2) the real-time Short-

                 Term Reserve Ex Post MCP minus the day-ahead Short-Term Reserve Offer cost;

                 and (3) the duration of such Dispatch Intervals expressed in Hours; (b) If the day-

                 ahead Short-Term Reserve volume is greater than zero and less than or equal to

                 the real-time Short-Term Reserve volume, the real-time Short-Term Reserve

                 revenue is determined by the product of: (1) the real-time Short-Term Reserve

                 volume minus the day-ahead Short-Term Reserve volume; (2) the real-time Short-

                 Term Reserve Ex Post MCP; and (3) the duration of such Dispatch Intervals

                 expressed in Hours; (c) If the day-ahead Short-Term Reserve volume is equal to




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 zero, the real-time Short-Term Reserve revenue is determined by the product of:

                 (1) the real-time Short-Term Reserve volume; (2) the real-time Short-Term

                 Reserve Ex Post MCP; and (3) the duration of such Dispatch Intervals expressed

                 in Hours.

                 (b)    Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit Reduction

                 (i)    Energy Revenue Reduction: For any Resource that fails to meet the Real-

                 Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Full Payment Criteria for an Hour during

                 the Real-Time SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation, the Revenue Sufficiency

                 Guarantee Full Payment calculation shall be modified such that the Production

                 Costs and Energy Revenue will be based on the eligible MW value. For all

                 Resources other than Demand Response Resource Type-I, the eligible MW value

                 for a given Dispatch Interval is equal to the lesser of: (1) the Actual Energy

                 Injection; (2) the Excessive Energy Threshold; (3) the as-committed Hourly

                 Economic Minimum Limit; (4) the as-committed self-schedule MW for instances

                 where the Energy Dispatch Status is self-schedule; or (5) the as-committed

                 Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit for instances where the Resource is scheduled

                 to potentially provide Regulating Reserve. For Demand Response Resource

                 Type-I, the eligible MW value is equal to the lesser of: (1) the Actual Energy

                 Injection; or (2) the as-committed Targeted Demand Reduction Level.

                 (ii)   Ineligible Energy Margin: In order to avoid increasing the total Real-

                 Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit for a Resource that fails to meet the

                 Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Full Payment Criteria, the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                        54.0.0


                  Transmission Provider shall also include any additional energy margin that results

                  from Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit Reduction. The additional energy

                  margin is calculated as the greater of: (1) the difference between (a) the Energy

                  Revenue associated with Actual Energy Injections between the eligible MW value

                  and the Non-Excessive Energy injections; and (b) the Production Costs for the

                  Energy associated with Actual Energy Injections between the eligible MW value

                  and the Non-Excessive Energy injections; and (2) zero.

           iii.   External Asynchronous Resources Export Schedule Real-Time Revenue

                  Sufficiency Guarantee Credit. The hourly basis External Asynchronous Resources

                  Export Schedule credit is the product of 1) the net positive difference between (a)

                  the Real-Time Hourly Export Energy value, and (b) the Day-Ahead Hourly

                  Export Energy value, and 2) the Real-Time Hourly LMP at the External

                  Asynchronous Resources Commercial Pricing Node. The hourly basis for the

                  External Asynchronous Resources Export energy value is the area under the

                  Energy Offer curve between the Day-Ahead hourly Export energy and Real-Time

                  hourly Export energy.

           iv.    Cost Allocation. This credit shall be supported through revenue collected from

                  the Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charge.

       d. Applicability of Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges and Contingency

          Reserve Deployment Failure Charges




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                     Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market
MODULES                                                                                      54.0.0


   The provisions of Section 40.3.4 related to Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges and

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charges shall apply to Resources irrespective of the

   provisions of this Section.




                                                                          Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        40.3.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                          Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating
MODULES                                                                                       38.0.0


   Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Energy

   Purchases and Sales Associated with Demand Response Resources

       a. Energy Charges and Credits. Market Participants shall be charged the applicable

          Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP for any Actual Energy Withdrawals associated with a

          Demand Response Resource, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, that exceed their

          Day-Ahead Scheduled Withdrawals associated with Demand Response Resource (and are

          credited for the Actual Energy Withdrawals, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, that

          are below their Day-Ahead Scheduled Withdrawals associated with a Demand Response

          Resource). The applicable Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP is the LMP at the

          Commercial Pricing Node at which the withdrawal (or injection) takes place.

       b. Demand Response Resource Non-Excessive Energy Charges and Credits. Market

          Participants (including Market Participants that are ARCs) will be credited the applicable

          Real-Time Ex Post LMP for Non-Excessive Energy for Demand Response Resources

          pursuant to Section 40.3.4, net of Real-Time Financial Schedules, that exceeds their Day-

          Ahead Scheduled Injections (and will be charged for Non-Excessive Energy, net of Real-

          Time Financial Schedules, deviations below their Day-Ahead Scheduled Injections). The

          applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP for Non-Excessive Energy that exceeds their Day-

          Ahead Scheduled Injections is the LMP at the Commercial Pricing Node at which the

          injection occurs, and must be greater than or equal to the Net Benefits Price Threshold.

          The applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP will be used for Non-Excessive Energy

          associated with Contingency Reserve Deployment Instructions. For deviations below




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                       40.3.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                         Charges and Credits for Real-Time Energy and Operating
MODULES                                                                                      38.0.0


          Day-Ahead Scheduled Injections, the applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP is the LMP at

          the Commercial Pricing Node at which the injection occurs.

       c. Demand Response Resource Excessive Energy Credits. Market Participants are

          credited the Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Price for Excessive Energy associated

          with Demand Response Resources where such Excessive Energy is calculated pursuant to

          Section 40.3.4. The applicable Real-Time Ex Post LMP is the LMP at the Commercial

          Pricing Node at which the injection occurs and must be greater than or equal to the Net

          Benefits Price Threshold.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    Charges and Credits for Transmission Provider Balancing Auth
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   Charges and Credits for Transmission Provider Balancing Authority Compliance with

   NERC/RRO Standards and Participation in Reserve Sharing Group

       a. Administrative Charges/Credits. Revenue received by the Transmission Provider

          Balancing Authority as compensation for the performance of administrative services

          associated with compliance with NERC and/or Regional Entity standards, including but

          not limited to, participation in a Reserve Sharing Group and/or providing Emergency

          Energy assistance shall be used to reduce administrative costs recovered from Market

          Participants pursuant to Schedule 17 of the Tariff. Fees to be paid by the Transmission

          Provider Balancing Authority associated with the provision of such administrative

          services shall be recovered from Market Participants pursuant to Schedule 17 of the

          Tariff.

       b. Other Charges/Revenue. Charges owed, other than charges owed under Sections

          40.3.3.5.a and 40.2.22, by the Transmission Provider Balancing Authority, for

          Emergency Energy assistance received from, including but not limited to, Reserve

          Sharing Group members, shall be recovered from Market Participants on a daily pro rata

          share basis. Revenue, other than revenue covered under Section 40.3.3.5.a, received by

          the Transmission Provider Balancing Authority for Emergency Energy assistance

          received by others, including but not limited to Reserve Sharing Group members and/or

          Balancing Authorities, shall be distributed to Market Participants on a daily pro rata share

          basis. For both charges and revenues, the Market Participant’s daily pro rata share for

          each day in which charges and/or revenues apply shall be calculated as the sum of the

          applicable Market Participant’s: (i) withdrawals at Commercial Nodes, excluding




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                         40.3.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    Charges and Credits for Transmission Provider Balancing Auth
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


          withdrawals associated with Carved-Out GFAs and (ii) Export Schedules in that Day

          divided by the sum of all withdrawals at commercial nodes (excluding withdrawals at

          commercial nodes with Carved-Out GFAs) and all Export Schedules for all applicable

          Market Participants in that Day.




                                                                    Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


          Settlement of deviations from Setpoint Instructions is subject to a Tolerance Band as

   specified in this Section. A Resource (excluding a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource) shall be

   charged Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges in any Hour for which that Resource’s

   average telemetered output over the Dispatch Interval is outside the Tolerance Band in four (4)

   or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals, except where Resources fall under Section 38.6.1, in

   which case Section 40.3.4.h applies. A Dispatchable Intermittent Resource shall be charged

   Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges in any Hour for which that Dispatchable

   Intermittent Resource’s average telemetered output over the Dispatch Interval is outside the

   Tolerance Band in any one (1) Dispatch Interval.

          Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charges are assessed to Resources that fail to

   deploy Contingency Reserve, consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set

   forth in Schedule 29, in an amount greater than or equal to the amount specified in the

   Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction within the Contingency Reserve Deployment

   Period, except where Resources fall under Section 38.6.1, in which case Section 40.3.4.h applies.

          Short-Term Reserve Deployment Failure Charges are assessed to off-line Resources that

   fail to deploy Short-Term Reserve, consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as

   set forth in Schedule 29, in an amount greater than or equal to the Economic Minimum Dispatch

   within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period, except where Resources fall under Section

   38.6.1, in which case Section 40.3.4.h applies.

   Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges and Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure

   Charges are calculated as set forth below.

   a.     Tolerance Band and Excessive and Deficient Energy Calculations.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


          i.     Generation Resource (except where as provided under Section 40.3.4.a.ii),

                 Demand Response Resource – Type II, and External Asynchronous Resource

                 Tolerance Band. The Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Threshold of a

                 Generation Resource (except where as provided under Section 40.3.4.a.ii),

                 Demand Response Resource – Type II, or External Asynchronous Resource shall

                 be equal to the sum of: (1) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the

                 current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval plus the average

                 Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval for that

                 Resource accounting for the Resource’s applicable ramp rate; and (2) the lesser of

                 (a) the ramp rate used for Energy and Regulating Reserve times five and (b) the

                 product of (i) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current

                 Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval plus the average Regulating

                 Reserve Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval for that Resource

                 accounting for the Resource’s applicable ramp rate and (ii) twelve percent (12%).

                 The Deficient Energy Threshold of a Generation Resource (except where as

                 provided under Section 40.3.4.a.ii), Demand Response Resource – Type II, or

                 External Asynchronous Resource shall be equal to the difference between: (1) the

                 average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and

                 the previous Dispatch Interval plus the average Regulating Reserve Deployment

                 instruction for that Dispatch Interval for that Resource accounting for the

                 Resource’s applicable ramp rate; and (2) the lesser of (a) the ramp rate used for

                 Energy and Regulating Reserve times five and (b) the product of (i) the average of




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous

                 Dispatch Interval plus the average Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction for

                 that Dispatch Interval for that Resource accounting for the Resource’s applicable

                 ramp rate and (ii) twelve percent (12%); provided, however, that the Excessive

                 Energy Threshold and Deficient Energy Threshold shall not be less than the

                 minimum or exceed the maximum levels as specified in section 40.3.4.a.v, except

                 that the resulting Excessive and Deficient Energy Thresholds will be adjusted for

                 achievable Setpoint Instructions based on offered ramp rate when deployments for

                 Energy, Regulation, and/or Contingency Reserves utilize ramping capabilities as

                 set forth Schedule 29.

          ii.    Dispatchable Intermittent Resource Tolerance Band.

                 Pursuant to Section 40.2.5.b.xxxiii, the Transmission Provider shall develop a

                 Forecast Maximum Limit for a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource for each

                 Dispatch Interval, except the Transmission Provider shall not develop a Forecast

                 Maximum Limit for a Hybrid Resource registered as a Dispatchable Intermittent

                 Resource. A Dispatchable Intermittent Resource can elect to use the

                 Transmission Provider Forecast Maximum Limit or provide its own Forecast

                 Maximum Limit for a given Dispatch Interval, but a Hybrid Resource registered

                 as a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource must use its own Forecast Maximum

                 Limit. Unless otherwise distinguished, Dispatchable Intermittent Resource applies

                 to both Hybrid and non-Hybrid Dispatchable Intermittent Resources.

                        1.      For a Dispatch Interval in which a Market Participant Forecast




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                     40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff              Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                  58.0.0


                            Maximum Limit is used the Tolerance Band will be as follows:

                            The Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Threshold shall be equal

                            to the sum of: (1) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy

                            for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval

                            and (2) the lesser of (a) the ramp rate used for Energy times five

                            and (b) the product of (i) the average of the Dispatch Targets for

                            Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch

                            Interval and (ii) four percent (4%). The Deficient Energy

                            Threshold shall be equal to the difference between: (1) the average

                            of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current Dispatch

                            Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval plus; and (2) the lesser

                            of (a) the ramp rate used for Energy times five and (b) the product

                            of (i) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current

                            Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval and (ii) four

                            percent (4%). Provided, however, that the Excessive Energy

                            Threshold and Deficient Energy Threshold shall not be less than

                            the minimum or exceed the maximum levels as specified in section

                            40.3.4.a.v.

                       2.   For a Dispatch Interval in which the Transmission Provider

                            Forecast Maximum Limit is used the Tolerance Band will be

                            determined as set forth below.

                            (a) For a Dispatch Interval in which the Uninstructed Deviation




                                                                         Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff         Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                             58.0.0


                       Enhancement Flag is “False” and the Dispatch Target for Energy

                       equals the Forecast Maximum Limit, the Excessive Energy

                       Threshold and Deficient Energy Threshold will be set equal to the

                       Dispatchable Intermittent Resource’s Dispatch Interval Actual

                       Energy Injections.

                       (b) For a Dispatch Interval in which the Uninstructed Deviation

                       Enhancement Flag is “True” and the Uninstructed Deviation

                       Enhancement Reason Code is 2, 3, or 6 the Tolerance Band will be

                       as follows:

                       The Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Threshold shall be equal

                       to the sum of: (1) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy

                       for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval

                       and (2) the lesser of (a) the ramp rate used for Energy times five

                       and (b) the product of (i) the average of the Dispatch Targets for

                       Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch

                       Interval and (ii) four percent (4%). The Deficient Energy

                       Threshold shall be equal to the Dispatchable Intermittent

                       Resource’s Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injection. Provided,

                       however, that the Excessive Energy Threshold shall not be less

                       than the minimum or exceed the maximum levels as specified in

                       section 40.3.4.a.v.

                       (c) For a Dispatch Interval in which the Uninstructed Deviation




                                                                    Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                       40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                    58.0.0


                              Enhancement Flag is “True” and the Uninstructed Deviation

                              Enhancement Reason Code is 3 specifically due to economic

                              curtailment, the Tolerance Band will be as follows:

                              The Dispatch Interval Excessive Energy Threshold shall be equal

                              to the sum of: (1) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy

                              for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval

                              and (2) the lesser of (a) the ramp rate used for Energy times five

                              and (b) the product of (i) the average of the Dispatch Targets for

                              Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch

                              Interval and (ii) four percent (4%). The Deficient Energy

                              Threshold shall be equal to the difference between: (1) the average

                              of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current Dispatch

                              Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval; and (2) the lesser of (a)

                              the ramp rate used for Energy times five and (b) the product of (i)

                              the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current

                              Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval and (ii) four

                              percent (4%). Provided, however, that the Excessive Energy

                              Threshold and Deficient Energy Threshold shall not be less than

                              the minimum or exceed the maximum levels as specified in section

                              40.3.4.a.v.

          iii.   Demand Response Resource – Type I Tolerance Band.

                 The Excessive Energy Threshold of a Demand Response Resource – Type I that




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 has been committed for Energy, shall be equal to one hundred and twelve percent

                 (112%) of the Targeted Demand Reduction Level for that Dispatch Interval and,

                 the Deficient Energy Threshold of a Demand Response Resource - Type I that has

                 been committed for Energy, shall be equal to eighty-eight percent (88%) of the

                 Targeted Demand Reduction Level for that Dispatch Interval; provided, however,

                 that the Excessive Energy Threshold and Deficient Energy Threshold shall not be

                 less than the minimum or exceed the maximum levels as specified in section

                 40.3.4.a.v. For Demand Response Resources – Type I that have not been

                 committed for Energy, the Excessive Energy Threshold and Deficient Energy

                 Threshold shall be equal to zero.

          iv.    Electric Storage Resource Tolerance Band. The Excessive Energy Threshold of

                 an Electric Storage Resource shall be equal to the sum of (a) the Dispatch Target

                 for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval, (b) the average Regulating Reserve

                 Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval for that Resource accounting for

                 the Resource’s applicable ramp rate and (c) 12% of the absolute value of the sum

                 of (i) the Dispatch Target for Energy and (ii) the average Regulating Reserve

                 Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval. The Deficient Energy

                 Threshold of an Electric Storage Resource shall be equal to the sum of (a) the

                 Dispatch Target for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and (b) the average

                 Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval for that

                 Resource less 12% of the absolute value of (i) the Dispatch Target for Energy and

                 (ii) the average Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction for that Dispatch




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 Interval.

          v.     Minimum and Maximum Tolerance Band Thresholds. The Excessive Energy

                 Threshold as specified above will be adjusted so that it shall be no less than six

                 (6) MW or no greater than thirty (30) MW plus the sum of (a) the average of the

                 Dispatch Targets for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous

                 Dispatch Interval, and (b) the average Regulating Reserve Deployment

                 instruction, accounting for the Resource’s applicable ramp rate, for that Dispatch

                 Interval. The Deficient Energy Threshold as specified above will be adjusted so

                 that it shall be no greater than the sum of (a) the average of the Dispatch Targets

                 for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval,

                 and (b) the average Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction, accounting for

                 the Resource’s applicable ramp rates, for that Dispatch Interval minus six (6) MW

                 or no less than the sum of (a) the average of the Dispatch Targets for Energy for

                 the current Dispatch Interval and the previous Dispatch Interval, and (b) the

                 average Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction, accounting for the

                 Resource’s applicable ramp rate, for that Dispatch Interval minus thirty (30) MW,

                 except that, if the Deficient Energy Threshold is less than zero, the Deficient

                 Energy Threshold shall be set equal to zero.

                 The Excessive Energy Threshold as defined above for a Demand Response

                 Resource – Type I shall never be greater than the Targeted Demand Reduction

                 Level plus 30 MW nor less than the Targeted Demand Reduction Level plus one-

                 tenth (0.1) MW. The Deficient Energy Threshold as defined above for Demand




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                 Response Resource – Type I shall never be less than the Targeted Demand

                 Reduction Level minus 30 MW nor greater than the Targeted Demand Reduction

                 Level minus one-tenth (0.1) MW.

                 The Excessive Energy Threshold as defined above for an Electric Storage

                 Resource shall never be less than the minimum of ten percent (10%) of the Hourly

                 Maximum Energy Storage Level or 6 MW, or more than 30 MW greater than the

                 sum of (a) the Dispatch Target for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval, (b)

                 the average Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval

                 for that Resource accounting for the Resource’s applicable ramp rate. The

                 Deficient Energy Threshold as defined above for an Electric Storage Resource

                 shall never be less than the minimum of ten percent (10%) of the Hourly

                 Maximum Energy Storage Level or 6 MW, or more than 30 MW less than the

                 sum of (a) the Dispatch Target for Energy for the current Dispatch Interval, (b)

                 the average Regulating Reserve Deployment instruction for that Dispatch Interval

                 for that Resource accounting for the Resource’s applicable ramp rate.

          vi.    Excessive Energy for Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource and

                 External Asynchronous Resource. Excessive Energy for a Generation Resource

                 in a Dispatch Interval is equal to the greater of (a) the product of the duration of

                 the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the difference between the Dispatch Interval

                 Actual Energy Injections, and the Excessive Energy Threshold for that Generation

                 Resource, or (b) zero. Excessive Energy for an External Asynchronous Resource

                 in a Dispatch Interval is equal to the greater of (a) the product of the duration of




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                  the Dispatch Interval in Hours and difference between the Dispatch Interval

                  Actual Energy Injections, and the Excessive Energy Threshold for that External

                  Asynchronous Resource, or (b) zero.

                  Excessive Energy for an Electric Storage Resource in a Dispatch Interval is equal

                  to the greater of (a) the product of the duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours

                  and difference between the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections, and the

                  greater of the Excessive Energy Threshold, or (b) zero.

          vii.    Excessive Energy for Demand Response Resource-Type I. Excessive Energy for

                  a Demand Response Resource -Type I in a Dispatch Interval is equal to the

                  greater of (a) the product of the duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the

                  difference between the Calculated DRR -Type I Output of Demand Response

                  Resource -Type I, expressed in MW, and the Excessive Energy Threshold for

                  such one or more Demand Response Resources -Type I, or (b) zero.

                  If the Demand Response Resource – Type I has not been committed for Energy

                  for that Hour, the DRR-Type I Calculated Output shall be equal to zero (0).

          viii.   Excessive Energy for Demand Response Resource-Type II. Excessive Energy for

                  a Demand Response Resource -Type II in a Dispatch Interval is equal to the

                  greater of (a) the product of the duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the

                  difference between the Calculated DRR -Type II Output of such Demand

                  Response Resource -Type II, expressed in MW, and the Excessive Energy

                  Threshold for such Demand Response Resource -Type II, or (b) zero. If the

                  Demand Response Resource-Type II has not been committed for Energy for that




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                 Hour, the Calculated DRR-Type II Output shall be equal to zero (0) MW.

          ix.    Excessive Withdrawal for Electric Storage Resource. Excessive Withdrawal for

                 an Electric Storage Resource is equal to the greater of (a) the product of the

                 duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the difference between the lesser of

                 the Deficient Energy Threshold and zero, and the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy

                 Injections, or (b) zero.

          x.     Deficient Energy for Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource or External

                 Asynchronous Resource. Deficient Energy in a Dispatch Interval for a

                 Generation Resource is equal to the greater of (a) the product of the duration of

                 the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the difference between the Deficient Energy

                 Threshold for the Generation Resource and the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy

                 Injections, or (b) zero. Deficient Energy in a Dispatch Interval for an External

                 Asynchronous Resource is equal to the greater of (a) the product of the duration

                 of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the difference between the Deficient Energy

                 Threshold for the External Asynchronous Resource and the Dispatch Interval

                 Actual Energy Injections, or (b) zero (0) MW.

                 Deficient Energy in a Dispatch Interval for an Electric Storage Resource is equal

                 to the greater of (a) the product of the duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours

                 and the difference between the greater of the Deficient Energy Threshold and zero

                 for the Electric Storage Resource and the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy

                 Injections, or (b) zero (0) MW.

          xi.    Deficient Energy for Demand Response Resource-Type I. Deficient Energy in a




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                  Dispatch Interval for a Demand Response Resource-Type I is equal to the greater

                  of (a) the product of the duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the

                  difference between the Deficient Energy Threshold for Demand Response

                  Resource-Type I and the Calculated DRR-Type I Output of such Demand

                  Response Resource -Type I, expressed in MW or (b) zero. If the Demand

                  Response Resource – Type I has not been committed for Energy for that Hour, the

                  Calculated DRR-Type I Output shall be equal to zero (0) MW.

          xii.    Deficient Energy for Demand Response Resource-Type II. Deficient Energy in a

                  Dispatch Interval for a Demand Response Resource-Type II is equal to the greater

                  of (a) the product of the duration of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the

                  difference between the Deficient Energy Threshold for such Demand Response

                  Resource-Type II and the Calculated DRR-Type II Output of such one or more

                  Demand Response Resource -Type II, expressed in MW, or (b) zero (0) MW. If

                  the Demand Response Resource – Type II has not been committed for Energy for

                  that Hour, the Calculated DRR – Type II output shall be equal to zero (0) MW.

          xiii.   Deficient Withdrawal for Electric Storage Resource. Deficient Withdrawal for an

                  Electric Storage Resource is equal to the greater of (a) the product of the duration

                  of the Dispatch Interval in Hours and the difference between the Dispatch Interval

                  Actual Energy Injections, and the lesser of the Excessive Energy Threshold and

                  zero, or (b) zero.

          xiv.    Non-Excessive Energy for Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource, or

                  External Asynchronous Resource.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 In an Hour with Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy or any combination thereof

                 in four (4) or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals, Non-Excessive Energy in a

                 Dispatch Interval for a Generation Resource (excluding a Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource) is equal to the product of the Dispatch Interval duration in

                 Hours and the lesser of the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections, of the

                 Generation Resource or the Generation Resource’s Excessive Energy Threshold.

                 Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval for an External Asynchronous

                 Resource is equal to the product of the Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and

                 the lesser of the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections, of the External

                 Asynchronous Resource or the External Asynchronous Resource’s Excessive

                 Energy Threshold. Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval for an Electric

                 Storage Resource is equal to the product of (a) the Dispatch Interval duration in

                 Hours, and (b) the lesser of the Electric Storage Resource’s Dispatch Interval

                 Actual Energy Injections, or Excessive Energy Threshold when discharging; or

                 the lesser of the Electric Storage Resource’s Dispatch Interval Actual Energy

                 Injections, or Deficient Energy Threshold when charging.

                 In an Hour with Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy or any combination thereof

                 in three (3) or less consecutive Dispatch Intervals, Non-Excessive Energy in a

                 Dispatch Interval for a Generation Resource (excluding a Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource) is equal to the product of the Dispatch Interval duration in

                 Hours and the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections, of the Generation

                 Resource. Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval for an External




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 Asynchronous Resource is equal to the product of the Dispatch Interval duration

                 in Hours and the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections, of the External

                 Asynchronous Resource. Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval for an

                 Electric Storage Resource is equal to the product of (a) the Dispatch Interval

                 duration in Hours, and (b) the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections of the

                 Electric Storage Resource.

                 Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval for a Dispatchable Intermittent

                 Resource is equal to the product of the Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and

                 the lesser of the Dispatch Interval Actual Energy Injections of the Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource or the Dispatchable Intermittent Resource’s Excessive

                 Energy Threshold.

          xv.    Non-Excessive Energy for Demand Response Resource-Type I. In an Hour with

                 Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy or any combination thereof in four (4) or

                 more consecutive Dispatch Intervals, Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch

                 Interval for a Demand Response Resource-Type I is equal to the product of the

                 Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and the lesser of the Calculated DRR-Type I

                 Output of such Demand Response Resource-Type I, or such one or more Demand

                 Response Resource-Type I Excessive Energy Threshold.

                 In an Hour with Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy or any combination thereof

                 in three (3) or less consecutive Dispatch Intervals Non-Excessive Energy in a

                 Dispatch Interval for a Demand Response Resource - Type I is equal to the

                 product of the Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and the Calculated DRR-Type




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                  I Output of such one or more Demand Response Resource-Type I.

                  The Calculated DRR -Type I Output for a Dispatch Interval is calculated in

                  accordance with Attachment TT. If the Demand Response Resource – Type I has

                  not been committed for Energy for that Hour, the Calculated DRR-Type I Output

                  shall be equal to zero (0) MW.

          xvi.    Non-Excessive Energy for Demand Response Resource-Type II. In an Hour with

                  Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy or any combination thereof in four (4) or

                  more consecutive Dispatch Intervals, Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch

                  Interval for a Demand Response Resource-Type II is equal to the product of the

                  Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and the lesser of the Calculated DRR-Type II

                  Output of such Demand Response Resource-Type II, or such Demand Response

                  Resource-Type II Excessive Energy Threshold. In an Hour with Excessive

                  Energy, Deficient Energy or any combination thereof in three (3) or less

                  consecutive Dispatch Intervals, Non-Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval for a

                  Demand Response Resource-Type II is equal to the product of the Dispatch

                  Interval duration in Hours and the Calculated DRR-Type II Output of such

                  Demand Response Resource-Type II.

                  If the DRR–Type II has not been committed for Energy for that Hour, the

                  Calculated DRR – Type II output shall be equal to zero (0) MW.

          xvii.   Contingency Reserve Deployment. During Dispatch Intervals in which there is

                  Contingency Reserve Deployment on a specific Resource, the Excessive Energy

                  Threshold and Deficient Energy Threshold will not apply to that Resource. A




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 Resource is considered to be deploying Contingency Reserve in any Dispatch

                 Interval that overlaps or is within the Disturbance Recovery Period associated

                 with any event that triggered any of the Contingency Reserve Deployment.

   b.     Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges and Consequences

          If a Market Participant’s Resource (excluding a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource) has

          Excessive Energy, Deficient Energy, Excessive Withdrawal, Deficient Withdrawal or any

          combination thereof in four (4) or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an Hour, that

          Market Participant shall be subject to an Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge

          associated with such Resource. If a Market Participant’s Dispatchable Intermittent

          Resource has Excessive Energy or Deficient Energy in any one (1) Dispatch Interval in

          an Hour, that Market Participant shall be subject to an Excessive/Deficient Energy

          Deployment Charge associated with such Resource. The Excessive/Deficient Energy

          Deployment Charge shall be calculated as follows:

          i.     A Resource’s Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge shall be equal to:

                 (1) the product of the absolute value of the Resource’s Actual Energy Injection, in

                 MWh, for the Hour and the Excessive/Deficient Charge Rate, in $/MWh; plus (2)

                 the greater of (a) the sum of (i) the Regulating Reserve credits calculated pursuant

                 to Section 39.3.2A.a, (ii) the Regulating Reserve credits/charges calculated

                 pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.b.ii, (iii) the Short-Term Reserve credits calculated

                 pursuant to Section 39.3.2A.e, and (iv) the Short-Term Reserve credits/charges

                 calculated pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.b.vi for that Resource for that Hour or (b)

                 zero; plus (3) the sum of (a) if the Resource has Deficient Energy in a Dispatch




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                 Interval and the Marginal Congestion Component of the applicable Real-Time Ex

                 Post Locational Marginal Price in that Dispatch Interval is greater than zero (0),

                 the product of (i) the Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and (ii) the product of

                 the Deficient Energy and the Marginal Congestion Component of the applicable

                 Real-Time Ex Post Locational Marginal Price; and (b) if the Resource has

                 Excessive Energy in a Dispatch Interval and the Marginal Congestion Component

                 of the applicable Real-Time Ex Post Locational Marginal Price in that Dispatch

                 Interval is less than zero (0), the product of (i) the Dispatch Interval duration in

                 Hours and (ii) the product of the Excessive Energy, the Marginal Congestion

                 Component of the applicable Real-Time Ex Post Locational Marginal Price, and

                 negative one (-1); and (c) if the Resource has Deficient Withdrawal in a Dispatch

                 Interval and the Marginal Congestion Component of the applicable Real-Time Ex

                 Post Locational Marginal Price in that Dispatch Interval is less than zero (0), the

                 product of (i) the Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and (ii) the product of the

                 Deficient Withdrawal, the Marginal Congestion Component of the applicable

                 Real-Time Ex Post Locational Marginal Price, and negative one (-1); and (d) if

                 the Resource has Excessive Withdrawal in a Dispatch Interval and the Marginal

                 Congestion Component of the applicable Real-Time Ex Post Locational Marginal

                 Price in that Dispatch Interval is greater than zero (0), the product of (i) the

                 Dispatch Interval duration in Hours and (ii) the product of the Excessive

                 Withdrawal and the Marginal Congestion Component of the applicable Real-Time

                 Ex Post Locational Marginal Price.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                 The Excessive/Deficient Charge Rate in an Hour is equal to the greater of (1) the

                 quotient of (a) the sum of the (i) the Day-Ahead Regulating Reserve credits

                 calculated pursuant to Section 39.3.2A.a, (ii) the Real-Time Regulating Reserve

                 charges/credits calculated pursuant to Section 40.3.3.3.b.ii, (iii) the day-ahead

                 Short-Term Reserve credits calculated pursuant to Section 39.3.2A.e, and (iv) the

                 real-time Short-Term Reserve charges/credits calculated pursuant to Section

                 40.3.3.3.b.vi in that Hour and (b) the sum of all Actual Energy Withdrawals, in

                 MWh, at all Commercial Pricing Nodes, excluding Export Schedules, in that Hour

                 or (2) zero.

          ii.    The Transmission Provider may report to the Commission and the Independent

                 Market Monitor a Market Participant’s failure to deliver Regulating Reserve

                 deployed as determined through evaluation of actual performance data if the

                 Transmission Provider believes that the Market Participant is inaccurately

                 reporting the physical capability of the Resource to provide Regulating Reserve.

   c.     Common Bus Substitution. For the purposes of settling Excessive Energy,

          Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges, and Contingency Reserve Deployment

          Failure Charges, all Resources owned by a specific Market Participant and either (i)

          located at the same electrical bus or (ii) associated with the same Load Zone will be

          aggregated as one Resource. Common buses will be established as part of the Network

          Model update process. These Resources will not be aggregated for any other purpose,

          including, but not limited to, offering, commitment, clearing, dispatching, pricing and

          instructing.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


   d.     Exemption from Excessive Energy Calculations and Excessive/Deficient Energy

          Deployment Charges.

          i.     Treatment of Intermittent Resources.

                 Notwithstanding any provisions of this Tariff to the contrary, Intermittent

                 Resources designated as such by the Transmission Provider shall not be subject to

                 Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges or the calculation of Excessive

                 Energy caused solely by the intermittent nature or characteristics of such

                 Resources, provided, that there be no fault or negligence of the Market

                 Participants or Generation Owners that own or operate them.

          ii.    Criteria for Intermittent Resources. Prior to March 1, 2013, Generation Resources

                 can be considered Intermittent Resources if they are incapable of being dispatched

                 or following Setpoint Instructions, and the Generation Resource has not

                 previously been registered as a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource. On or after

                 March 1, 2013, a Generation Resource can be considered an Intermittent

                 Resource if such Generation Resource is incapable of being dispatched by the

                 Transmission Provider or incapable of following Setpoint Instructions, the

                 Generation Resource has not previously been registered as a Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource, and: (A) the Commercial Operation Date as set forth in the

                 Resource’s Generator Interconnection Agreement or equivalent agreement is prior

                 to April 1, 2005; or (B) any of the following apply to the Capacity of the

                 Generation Resource in an amount, either separately or combined, that equals the

                 total Capacity of the Generation Resource: i) the Generation Resource has been




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                      58.0.0


                 interconnected to the Facilities operated by the Transmission provider through

                 Network Resource Interconnection Service; ii) the Generation Resource has been

                 designated as a Network Resource under Module B of the Tariff; or iii) the

                 Energy produced by the Generation Resource is subject to an agreement for Long-

                 Term Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service; or (C) the Generation Resource

                 is not fueled by wind or solar; or (D) the Generation Resource is fueled by solar

                 energy and is in commercial operation prior to March 15, 2020. Any Generation

                 Resource fueled by solar energy not in commercial operation prior to March 15,

                 2020 may qualify as an Intermittent Resource but must register as a Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource by March 15, 2022.

          iii.   Procedure for Designation of Intermittent Resources. Any Generation Resource

                 seeking Intermittent Resource status shall submit to the Transmission Provider a

                 written request to be designated as an Intermittent Resource, certifying and

                 demonstrating its compliance with the criteria and requirements for an

                 Intermittent Resource as set forth above. The Transmission Provider shall

                 designate a Generation Resource as an Intermittent Resource upon review and

                 verification of the request for such designation.

          iv.    Requirement of Day-Ahead Forecast. For reliability purposes, each Intermittent

                 Resource and Dispatchable Intermittent Resource must submit to the

                 Transmission Provider a Day-Ahead forecast of its intended output for the next

                 day consistent with the procedures for such forecast set forth in the Business

                 Practices Manuals. The Day-Ahead forecast shall not be financially binding on




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                           40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                        58.0.0


                 the Resource.

          v.     Other Grounds for Exemption: Generation Resources, External Asynchronous

                 Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type I, Demand Response Resources-

                 Type II, and Electric Storage Resources shall not be subject to Excessive Energy

                 Settlement or Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges during events or

                 conditions beyond the control, and without the fault or negligence, of the Market

                 Participant, including but not limited to:

                 (1)     Emergencies;

                 (2)     Test mode of the Resource; or

                 (3)     Start-up or shut-down mode of the Generation Resource or Electric

                         Storage Resource; or

                 (4)     The Hour when a Generation Resource or Electric Storage Resource trips

                         and goes off-line; or

                 (5)     During a Contingency Reserve Deployment; or

                 (6)     Extremely high wind or other weather-related conditions materially

                         impacting a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource’s ability to provide

                         Energy and resulting in a substantial reduction or cessation of wind or

                         solar generation activities.

   e.     Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charges and Consequences

          Market Participants with Resources that have failed to deploy Contingency Reserve,

          consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints as set forth in Schedule 29, in

          an amount greater than or equal to the amount specified in their Contingency Reserve




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


          Deployment Instructions within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period shall be

          subject to the following consequences:

          (i)     a Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charge that is equal to the Resource’s

                  Shortfall Amount(s) multiplied by the average of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP of

                  the Resource Commercial Pricing Node for the Dispatch Intervals of the

                  Contingency Reserve Deployment Period in which the failure(s) occurred, where

                  Shortfall Amount equals the Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction minus

                  the actual amount of Contingency Reserve deployed at the end of the Contingency

                  Reserve Deployment Period;

          (ii)    the amount of Contingency Reserve available for payment on that Resource shall

                  be restricted to the amount actually deployed in the Hour of failure every Hour

                  thereafter until the Resource achieves a higher level of output in a subsequent test

                  or actual deployment; and

          (iii)   Supplemental Qualified Resources that fail to provide Supplemental Reserves

                  pursuant to the Contingency Reserve Deployment Instruction shall be restricted to

                  the amount actually deployed in the Hour of failure for every Hour thereafter until

                  the Resource achieves a higher level of output in a subsequent test or actual

                  deployment; and

          (iv)    the Transmission Provider may report to the Commission and the Independent

                  Market Monitor a Market Participant’s failure to deliver Contingency Reserve

                  deployed as determined through evaluation of actual performance data if the

                  Transmission Provider believes that the Market Participant is inaccurately




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                   Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                       58.0.0


                  reporting the physical capability of the Resource to provide Contingency Reserve.

   f.     Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Deployment Failure Charges and Consequences

          Market Participants with off-line Resources, except for DRR – Type I, that have failed to

          deploy Short-Term Reserve, consistent with the Resource limit and ramping constraints

          as set forth in Schedule 29, in an amount greater than or equal to the Economic Minimum

          Dispatch within the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period, shall be subject to the

          following consequences:

          (i)     A Short-Term Reserve Deployment Failure Charge that is equal to the Resource’s

                  Shortfall Amount(s) multiplied by the average of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP of

                  the Resource Commercial Pricing Node for the Dispatch Intervals of the Short-

                  Term Reserve Deployment Period in which the failure(s) occurred, where the

                  Shortfall Amount equals the maximum of the difference between a Resource’s

                  Economic Minimum Dispatch and the Actual Energy Injection of the Resource at

                  the end of the Short-Term Reserve Deployment Period or zero;

          (ii)    The amount of Short-Term Reserve available for payment on that Resource shall

                  be restricted to zero (0) in the Hour of failure to deploy and for the remaining

                  Hours in the Operating Day; and

          (iii)   The Transmission Provider may report to the Commission and the Independent

                  Market Monitor a Market Participant’s failure to deliver Short-Term Reserve

                  deployed as determined through evaluation of actual performance data if the

                  Transmission Provider believes that the Market Participant is inaccurately

                  reporting the physical capability of the Resource to provide Short-Term Reserve.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                            40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                     Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                         58.0.0


   g.     Revenue Distribution from Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charge and

          Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge. Credits resulting from Contingency

          Reserve Deployment Failure Charges and Short-Term Reserve Deployment Failure

          Charges shall be allocated to all Market Participants pro rata, based on their Market Load

          Ratio Share. Credits resulting from the Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge

          shall be allocated to all Market Participants pro rata, based on their Market Load Ratio

          Share, excluding Export schedules.

   h.     Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges and Consequences for Demand

          Response Resources falling under Section 38.6.1. Demand Response Resources will be

          assessed charges as follows:

          i.     Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge. Settlement of deviations from

                 Setpoint Instructions is conducted hourly subject to a Tolerance Band as specified

                 in this Section 40.3.4.h. A Demand Response Resource shall be charged an

                 Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge in any Hour for which that

                 Resource’s Actual Energy Injections over the Hour are outside the Demand

                 Response Resource Tolerance Band specified in Section 40.3.4.h.ii.

          ii.    Demand Response Resource Tolerance Band. For Resources under this section,

                 the Tolerance Band will be calculated as follows. The upper limit of a Resource’s

                 Tolerance Band, or Excessive Energy Threshold, shall be equal to the maximum

                 of: (1) one hundred and twelve percent (112%) of the hourly Setpoint Instruction,

                 and (2) the sum of the hourly Setpoint Instruction plus one-tenth (0.1) MW. The

                 lower limit of a Resource’s Tolerance Band, or Deficient Energy Threshold shall




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                            40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                     Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                         58.0.0


                 equal the minimum of: (1) eighty-eight percent (88%) of the hourly Setpoint

                 Instruction, and (2) the sum of the hourly Setpoint Instruction minus one-tenth

                 (0.1) MW.

          iii.   Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charges and Consequences. If a

                 Demand Response Resource exceeds Excessive Energy Threshold, or Deficient

                 Energy Threshold for any Hour, that Market Participant shall be subject to an

                 Excessive/Deficient Energy Deployment Charge every Hour in that Day

                 associated with such Resource calculated as the maximum of: (1) the Resource’s

                 Actual Energy Injection, or (2) the Resources hourly Setpoint Instruction;

                 multiplied by the Excessive/Deficient Charge Rate, in $/MWh as defined in

                 Section 40.3.4.b.i.

   i.     Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charges and Consequences for Demand

          Response Resources falling under Section 38.6.1. Demand Response Resources will be

          assessed charges as follows:

          i.     Market Participants with Resources that have been identified as having failed to

                 deploy Contingency Reserve in an amount greater than or equal to the amount

                 specified in their Contingency Reserve Deployment Instructions within the

                 Contingency Reserve Deployment Period shall be subject to the following

                 consequences:

                 a.     A Contingency Reserve Deployment Failure Charge that is equal to the

                        Resource’s Shortfall Amount(s) multiplied by the average of the Real-

                        Time Ex Post LMP of the Resource Commercial Pricing Node for the




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                       40.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                Charge for Excessive/Deficient Energy and Reserve Deployment
MODULES                                                                                    58.0.0


                       Dispatch Intervals of the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period in

                       which the failure(s) occurred, where the Shortfall Amount equals the

                       Dispatch Interval Setpoint Instruction minus the Actual Energy Injection

                       in any Dispatch Interval.

                 b.    The amount of Contingency Reserve available for payment in the Day-

                       Ahead and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets on that

                       Resource shall be restricted to the amount determined to be deployed in

                       any Hour of any failure to deploy and for the remaining Hours in the

                       Operating Day, and the subsequent Operating Days until the Resource

                       achieves a higher level of output in a subsequent test; and

                 c.    The Transmission Provider may report to the Commission and the

                       Independent Market Monitor a Market Participant’s failure to deliver

                       Contingency Reserve deployed as determined through evaluation of actual

                       performance data if the Transmission Provider reasonably believes that the

                       Market Participant is inaccurately reporting the physical capability of the

                       Resource to provide Contingency Reserve.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                       40.3.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Regulation Performance Accuracy Measurement Test Failure Cha
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


          Resources scheduled to potentially provide Regulating Reserve that have a Dispatch

   Target for Energy within the Hourly Regulation Minimum Limit and the Hourly Regulation

   Maximum Limit for a Dispatch Interval, are subject to the Regulation Performance Accuracy

   Measurement Test. A Resource shall be charged the Regulation Performance Accuracy

   Measurement Test Failure Charge in those Hours for which that Resource fails the Regulation

   Performance Accuracy Measurement Test in any of the Dispatch Intervals. The Regulation

   Performance Accuracy Measurement Test Failure Charge is calculated as set forth below.

          a.     Regulation Performance Accuracy Measurement Test

                 The Actual Resource Response during a Dispatch Interval is calculated by

                 summing the actual MW movement for a Resource within a Dispatch Interval.

                 Within each Dispatch Interval, the actual MW movement towards the Setpoint

                 Instruction is positive, and the actual MW movement away from the Setpoint

                 Instruction is negative. The Desired Resource Response during a Dispatch

                 Interval is calculated by summing absolute values of the expected up and down

                 movement, in MW, that a Resource is capable of providing in response to

                 Setpoint Instructions based on its applicable ramp rate, assuming the Resource

                 starts from its actual output at the beginning of the Dispatch Interval.

                 For each Dispatch Interval, in which a Resource is subject to the Performance

                 Accuracy Measurement Test, the Resource passes the Performance Accuracy

                 Measurement Test if the Actual Resource Response is either above seventy

                 percent (70%) of the Desired Resource Response or the Actual Resource

                 Response is above the Desired Resource Response minus the tolerance amount




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                         40.3.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Regulation Performance Accuracy Measurement Test Failure Cha
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                 defined below. Such tolerance amount is the lesser of:(1) the MW amount that the

                 resource can move in 1.5minutes based on its applicable ramp rate; or(2) the

                 greater of:(i) 4MW, or (ii) one percent (1%) of the average Dispatch Target for

                 Energy for the Dispatch Interval.

                 If a Resource passes the Performance Accuracy Measurement Test in a Dispatch

                 Interval, the Resource’s response percentage is set as one hundred percent (100%)

                 for that Dispatch Interval. If a Resource fails the Performance Accuracy

                 Measurement Test by not passing the Test in a Dispatch Interval and the Desired

                 Resource Response is no less than 0.01MW and Actual Resource Response is

                 non-negative, then the Resource’s response percentage is calculated as the Actual

                 Resource Response divided by Desired Resource Response, expressed as a

                 percentage. If a Resource fails the Performance Accuracy Measurement Test in a

                 Dispatch Interval, and its Desired Resource Response is less than 0.01MW or its

                 Actual Resource Response is negative, then the Resource’s response percentage is

                 zero percent (0%).

          b.     Regulation Performance Accuracy Measurement Test Failure Charge

                 If a Market Participant’s Resource fails the Performance Accuracy Measurement

                 Test, then that Market Participant shall be subject to the Performance Accuracy

                 Measurement Test Failure Charges calculated as follows:

                       i.   A Resource that fails Performance Accuracy Measurement Test for a

                            Dispatch Interval shall be charged the Regulating Mileage Credit




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                       40.3.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Regulation Performance Accuracy Measurement Test Failure Cha
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


                         multiplied by the difference between one hundred percent (100%) and the

                         Resource’s response percentage for that Dispatch Interval.

                   ii.   If a Resource has not been assessed Excessive/Deficient Energy

                         Deployment Charges, and fails four or more consecutive Dispatch

                         Intervals in an Hour with the first of such intervals having cleared

                         Regulating Reserves in Real-Time Energy and Ancillary Service Market,

                         the Resource will receive a charge equal to: the greater of (a) the sum of

                         (i) the Regulating Reserve credits calculated pursuant to Section 39.3.2A.a

                         and (ii) the Regulating Reserve credits/charges calculated pursuant to

                         Section 40.3.3.3.b.ii for that Resource for that Hour or (b) zero.

          c.     Revenue Distribution from Performance Accuracy Measurement Test

          Failure Charges. Credits resulting from Performance Accuracy Measurement Test

          Failure Charges shall be allocated to all Market Participants pro rata, based on their

          Market Load Ratio Share, excluding Export Schedules.




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                   40.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff   Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payment
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                             Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             40.3.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Rationale for RTORSGP
MODULES                                                                                            44.0.0


          The RTORSGP mechanism protects an eligible Resource from the financial impact of

   being dispatched in circumstances under which the Resource is unable to fully recover its

   Incremental Energy Cost from the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP revenue, hourly net

   Operating Reserve revenue, Up Ramp Capability credit, Down Ramp Capability credit, and

   Short-Term Reserve revenue during the period the Transmission Provider has directed the

   Resource to operate through the 5-minute dispatch process used in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market operations at Non-Excessive Energy levels above the Resource’s

   Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy. The Manual Redispatch of Generation Resources, Demand

   Response Resources-Type II, Electric Storage Resources, or Distributed Energy Aggregated

   Resources shall be compensated pursuant to Section 33.8 of this Tariff, provided, that, if a

   Resource is dispatched as stated above and afterwards is manually redispatched back to its Day-

   Ahead Schedule, and the Resource is unable to fully recover its costs as described above, then

   the Resource shall retain its eligibility for RTORSGP during the intervals it needs to reach its

   Day-Ahead Schedule in accordance with its real-time ramp rate.

          Only Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources, Demand Response Resources –

   Type II, and Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources with Non-Excessive Energy greater than

   their Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy or with Non-Excessive Energy greater than their Hourly

   Economic Minimum Limit if their Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy is equal to zero that are not

   entitled to Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, and External Asynchronous

   Resources for Import Schedules are eligible for the RTORSGP. The RTORSGP provides a

   Market Participant following Setpoint Instructions with a method to recover incremental Energy

   costs thereby incurred that are not otherwise collected from the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             40.3.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Rationale for RTORSGP
MODULES                                                                                            44.0.0


   and net Operating Reserve revenue. The RTORSGP does not apply to the portion of a Market

   Participant’s Incremental Energy Costs that exceed the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP revenue

   for resources providing Spinning Reserves as a result of following a Contingency Reserve

   Deployment Instruction. Recovery of Incremental Energy Costs shall be limited to costs

   associated with Non-Excessive Energy and Operating Reserve Costs associated with Self-

   Schedules shall be set equal to zero. The RTORSGP does not include any compensation for Lost

   Opportunity Costs. The RTORSGP does not include any compensation for Demand Response

   Resources that are offered-in and cleared at a price below the net benefits threshold level in

   either the Day-Ahead or Real-Time Energy and Operating Markets.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           40.3.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Types of Resources Covered by RTORSGP
MODULES                                                                                          36.0.0


          Market Participants that satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in this Section 40.3.5 shall

   receive a RTORSGP calculated pursuant to Section 40.3.5.6 with respect to the following

   Resources:

   (a)    Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type

          II, and Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources committed in the Day-Ahead Energy

          and Operating Reserve Market or committed as Must-Run in the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market; and

   (b)    External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules.




                                                                                  Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             40.3.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            Resources
MODULES                                                                                            35.0.0


          A Generation Resource, an Electric Storage Resource, a Demand Response Resource –

   Type II, and a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources are only eligible for RTORSGP in

   Hours in which they have been committed by the Transmission Provider in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market with Non-Excessive Energy levels greater than their Day-

   Ahead Schedules for Energy, or received a commitment from the Transmission Provider in the

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market as Must-Run and their Non-Excessive Energy

   levels are greater than their Dispatch Interval Economic Minimum Dispatch.

          An External Asynchronous Resources (EAR) is only eligible for RTORSGP in Hours in

   which its Non-Excessive Energy level is greater than its Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy. The

   contiguous Hours within the Operating Day having such Day-Ahead commitments (or Day-

   Ahead Schedule for Energy in the case of an External Asynchronous Resource) and/or having

   such Real-Time Must-Run commitments (and/or Non-Excessive Energy levels greater than zero

   in the case of an External Asynchronous Resource for hours in which the Day-Ahead Schedule

   for Energy is equal to zero) constitute the RTORSGP contiguous SCUC Instructed Hours of

   Operation. The contiguous SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation is comprised of adjacent,

   shorter SCUC Instructed Hours of Operations within the Operating Day. For purposes of the

   RTORSGP, contiguous Day-Ahead committed Hours are referred to as the Day-Ahead SCUC

   Instructed Hours of Operation. Contiguous Real-Time Must-Run committed Hours are referred

   to as the Real-Time Must Run SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation.

          There are different eligibility criteria for Day-Ahead committed Hours than there are for

   Real-Time Must-Run committed Hours. Eligibility is assessed on a Dispatch Interval basis and

   on an hourly basis, utilizing both hourly data inputs and interval-level data inputs.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.3.5.4
FERC Electric Tariff                 RTORSGP Eligibility for Day-Ahead Committed Hours for Genera
MODULES                                                                                     41.0.0


   RTORSGP Eligibility for Day-Ahead Committed Hours for Generation Resources, Electric

   Storage Resources, Demand Response Resources-Type II, External Asynchronous

   Resources and Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources:

   To be eligible for the RTORSGP, the Day-Ahead committed Hours must comply with the

   following requirements, provided that the specified Offer data shall include any overrides

   entered by the Transmission Provider at the request of the Market Participant that owns or

   represents the Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource, Demand Response Resource –

   Type II, External Asynchronous Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource:

   (a)    The Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource, Demand Response Resource –

          Type II, External Asynchronous Resource, or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource

          must offer flexibly for the Dispatch Interval pursuant to the following criteria:

          i.      Ability to be dispatched by the unit dispatch system, as determined by the

                  following: (1) Real-Time unit dispatch system control status is a 1 or 2; (2)

                  Operating limits used by the unit dispatch system must have an operating range of

                  greater than 1 MW; and, (3) Real-Time Ramp Rate is greater than 0 MW/minute,

                  in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the applicable

                  Dispatch Interval; and

          ii.     If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals fail eligibility in an Hour, the

                  Resource will be ineligible for RTORSGP in that Hour.

   (b)    The Real-Time as-dispatched Offer data must meet the following criteria:




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                    40.3.5.4
FERC Electric Tariff               RTORSGP Eligibility for Day-Ahead Committed Hours for Genera
MODULES                                                                                   41.0.0


          i.     Within a given day-ahead commitment hour, the following Offer data that the

                 day-ahead committed was based on, may be modified and submitted as Real-Time

                 Offer data for input into the Transmission Provider’s dispatch software.

   1.     The Real-Time Energy Offer Curve must be equal to the Day-Ahead Energy Offer curve

          for each Hour in the Day-Ahead SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation.

   2.     Hourly minimum limits must be equal to the Day-Ahead Hourly minimum limit.

          The Real-Time Regulating Capacity Offer must be equal to the Day-Ahead Regulating

          Capacity Offer. The Real-Time Regulating Mileage Offer must be equal to the Day-

          Ahead Regulating Mileage Offer. The Real-Time Spinning Reserve Offer must be equal

          to the Day-Ahead Spinning Reserve Offer and the Real-Time Supplemental Reserve

          Offer must be equal to the Day-Ahead Supplemental Reserve Offer. This test will be

          performed for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour.

   (c)    The Day-Ahead Offer must meet the following requirements, if there is a non-zero Day

          Ahead Schedule for Energy in the prior Hour:

          i.     For the Day Ahead Schedule for Energy in the prior Hour, the price on the Day-

                 Ahead Energy Offer in the current Hour must not increase by greater than ten

                 percent (10%) from the price on the Day-Ahead Energy Offer in the prior Hour.

          ii.    The Day-Ahead Hourly Economic Maximum Limit in the current Hour must not

                 decrease, by greater than five times the day-ahead Hourly Ramp Rate, from the

                 minimum of: (1) the Day Ahead Schedule for Energy in the prior Hour; or (2) the

                 Day-Ahead Hourly Economic Maximum Limit in the prior Hour.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                       40.3.5.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  RTORSGP Eligibility for Day-Ahead Committed Hours for Genera
MODULES                                                                                      41.0.0


          iii.    If the Resource fails any of the above Day-Ahead Offer eligibility criteria, the

                  Resource will be ineligible for RTORSGP for the given Hour.

   (d)    The Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status must be Economic

   in the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets. This criterion will be

   checked for each Hour of the contiguous Day-Ahead SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation,

   sequentially. If the Resource fails this eligibility criterion, the Resource will be ineligible for

   RTORSGP for the given Hour.

   (e)    The offered Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for a Short-Term Reserve Qualified

   Resource must be Economic in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and the

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. This criterion will be checked for each Hour

   of the contiguous Day-Ahead SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation, sequentially. If the

   Resource fails this eligibility criterion, the Resource will be ineligible for RTORSGP for the

   given Hour.




                                                                                  Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                      40.3.5.5
FERC Electric Tariff                          RTORSGP Eligibility for Real-Time Must-Run Resources
MODULES                                                                                     41.0.0


   To be eligible for the RTORSGP, the Real-Time Must-Run committed Hours must meet the

   following requirements, provided that the specified Offer data shall include any overrides

   entered by the Transmission Provider at the request of the Market Participant that owns or

   represents the Resource:

   (a)    The Resource, excluding Demand Response Resources – Type I, must offer flexibly for

          the Hour, pursuant to the following criteria:

          i.      Ability to be dispatched by the unit dispatch system, as determined by the

                  following: (1) Real-Time unit dispatch system control status is a 1 or 2; (2)

                  Operating limits used by the unit dispatch system must have an operating range of

                  greater than 1 MW; and, (3) Real-Time Ramp Rate is greater than 0 MW/minute,

                  in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the applicable

                  Dispatch Interval.

          ii.     If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals fail eligibility in an Hour, the

                  Resource will be ineligible for RTORSGP in that Hour.

   (b)    All Real-Time Offer data as specified below must be the same for each consecutive Real-

          Time Must-Run committed Hour within the Real-Time Must-Run SCUC Instructed

          Hours of Operation, pursuant to the following criteria:

          i.      The following Offer parameters must be the same for each consecutive Real-Time

                  Must Run committed Hour.

                  1.     Energy Offer curve

                  2.     Regulating Capacity, Regulating Mileage, Spinning Reserve and

                         Supplemental Reserve Offers




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     40.3.5.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         RTORSGP Eligibility for Real-Time Must-Run Resources
MODULES                                                                                    41.0.0


                 3.     Hourly Economic Minimum Limit, Hourly Emergency Minimum Limit

                        and Hour Regulation Minimum Limit, or applicable hourly minimum limit

                        for an Electric Storage Resource and Distributed Energy Aggregated

                        Resource

                 4.     Targeted Demand Reduction Level

          ii.    This eligibility test will be performed for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour.

          iii.   This eligibility test is performed for each of the Real-Time Must-Run committed

                 Hours sequentially, starting at the beginning of the day.

          iv.    This eligibility test will not apply to Hours outside the boundaries of the

                 Operating Day.

   (c)    The Real-Time Offer data for the first Hour of Real-Time Must-Run SCUC Instructed

          Hours of Operation must be the same as those of the previous Hour if there was a

          commitment in the previous Hour, pursuant to the following criteria:

          i.     The same Offer data listed in Section 40.3.5.5(a) and (b) must be the same in the

                 Hour prior to the first Real-Time Must-Run Committed Hour if there is

                 commitment in the Hour prior to the first Hour in the Real-Time Must-Run SCUC

                 Instructed Hours of Operation.

          ii.    This test will be performed for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour.

          iii.   This test is performed for each of the Real-Time Must-Run committed Hours

                 sequentially, starting at the beginning of the day.

          iv.    These tests will not apply to Hours outside the boundaries of the Operating Day.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                     40.3.5.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         RTORSGP Eligibility for Real-Time Must-Run Resources
MODULES                                                                                    41.0.0


   (d)    The Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status must be Economic

          in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets. This criterion will be checked

          for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour and for each Hour of the contiguous Real-

          Time Must-Run SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation, sequentially. If four or more

          consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an Hour fail to meet this criterion, the Resource will be

          ineligible for RTORSGP in that Hour.

   (e)    The offered Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for a Short-Term Reserve Qualified

          Resource must be Economic in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

          This criterion will be checked for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour and for each

          Hour of the contiguous Real-Time Must-Run SCUC Instructed Hours of Operation,

          sequentially. If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an Hour fail to meet this

          criterion, the Resource will be ineligible for RTORSGP in that Hour.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            40.3.5.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Calculation of RTORSGP.
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


          Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type

   II, External Asynchronous Resources and Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources that satisfy

   the eligibility criteria set forth above shall receive a RTORSGP calculated as follows:

   (a)    Calculation of RTORSGP for Day-Ahead SCUC Instructed Hours of Operations

          and Real-Time Must Run SCUC Instructed Hours of Operations

          Resources that satisfy the eligibility criteria described above will have the calculation of

          the RTORSGP performed for each of the eligible Hours in accordance with Schedule 27.

          The calculation assesses whether the cost associated with following the Setpoint

          Instructions exceeds the value of the payments associated with following such dispatch,

          independently for each eligible Hour in the RTORSGP contiguous SCUC Instructed

          Hours of Operation. A Generation Resource, Electric Storage Resource, Demand

          Response Resource – Type II, External Asynchronous Resource, or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource will receive a RTORSGP in an eligible Hour if the Resource’s cost

          of following dispatch exceeds the value of the payment for following dispatch including

          any net Operating Reserve revenue, Regulation Deployment Adjustment, Up Ramp

          Capability Credit and Down Ramp Capability Credit.

          The calculation of the RTORSGP is performed in three steps for eligible unit Hours. The

          first step is the determination of the cost to the Resource of following the Setpoint

          Instructions. The second step is the determination of the value of the payment to the

          Resource for following Setpoint Instructions. The third step is the calculation of the

          RTORSGP. Each step of the calculation is described in Schedule 27.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.3.5.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Allocation/recovery of RTORSGP
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          The sum of the RTORSGP payments made in an Hour shall be funded through an

   assessment of debits on all Market Participants on a prorata basis, based on their Market Load

   Ratio Share.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                         40.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff   Day-Ahead Margin Assurance Payment (DAMAP)
MODULES                                                      30.0.0




                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             40.3.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Rationale for DAMAP
MODULES                                                                                            43.0.0


          If an eligible Market Participant buys out of a Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy, Day-

   Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve, Day-Ahead Schedule for Spinning Reserve, Day-Ahead

   Schedule for Supplemental Reserve, and/or Day-Ahead Schedule for Short-Term Reserve in a

   manner that reduces its Day-Ahead Margin it shall receive a DAMAP. The purpose of such

   payments is to protect Market Participants’ Day-Ahead Margins associated with real-time

   reductions below Day-Ahead Schedules after accounting for any Market Participant requested

   real-time de-rates granted by Transmission Provider, and any offsetting Real-Time margins for

   Operating Reserve, Short-Term Reserve, Up Ramp Capability, and Down Ramp Capability

   cleared in excess of Day-Ahead Schedules for those products. The DAMAP does not include any

   compensation for Lost Opportunity Costs for Resources based on avoided Real-Time LMP

   revenues and/or avoided Real-Time MCP revenues. The Manual Redispatch of Generation

   Resources, Demand Response Resources-Type II, Electric Storage Resources, or Distributed

   Energy Aggregated Resources shall be compensated pursuant to Section 33.8 of this Tariff,

   provided, that, if a Resource is dispatched below its Day-Ahead Schedule and afterwards is

   manually redispatched back to its Day-Ahead Schedule, the Resource’s Day-Ahead Margin shall

   be deemed eroded, and the Resource shall retain its eligibility for DAMAP, during the intervals

   it needs to reach its Day-Ahead Schedule in accordance with its real-time ramp rate. If a

   Resource’s Day-Ahead Offer does not reflect any operating limitation, such as thermal, voltage,

   or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations, provided by the Transmission

   Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the reliability of the Transmission System, the

   Resource shall be ineligible for DAMAP. However, if a Resource is dispatched below its Day-

   Ahead Schedule due to an operating limitation, such as thermal, voltage, or stability limits




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             40.3.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Rationale for DAMAP
MODULES                                                                                            43.0.0


   referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations, provided by the Transmission Provider or

   Transmission Operator to preserve the reliability of the Transmission System, that was not

   known before the applicable Day-Ahead Offer, the Resource shall retain its eligibility for

   DAMAP.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              40.3.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Types of Resources Covered by DAMAP
MODULES                                                                                             35.0.0


   Market Participants that satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth in this Section 40.3.6 shall receive

   a DAMAP calculated pursuant to Section 40.3.6.5 with respect to the following Resources:

   (a)     Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources, and Distributed Energy Aggregated

           Resources, including Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources, and Distributed

           Energy Aggregated Resources, manually redispatched pursuant to Section 33.8 of the

           Tariff, and Demand Response Resources – Type II committed in the Day-Ahead Energy

           and Operating Reserve Market, or

   (b)     Demand Response Resources – Type I with Day-Ahead Schedules for Contingency

           Reserve, or

   (c)     External Asynchronous Resources for Import Schedules with Day-Ahead Schedules for

           Energy.




                                                                                  Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               40.3.6.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Eligibility Criteria
MODULES                                                                                              34.0.0


          A Resource, including a Generation Resource, an Electric Storage Resource, or a

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource manually redispatched pursuant to Section 33.8 of this

   Tariff, is only eligible for DAMAP in Hours in which its Day-Ahead Margin has been eroded.

          If a Resource is a Forced-Off Asset during an Hour and has a Day-Ahead Schedule for

   Energy, the Resource will be ineligible for DAMAP in that Hour.

          Eligibility is assessed on an hourly basis, utilizing both hourly data inputs and interval-

   level data inputs.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          40.3.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  DAMAP Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         45.0.0


   To be eligible for the DAMAP, each Hour’s Offer data must comply with the following

   requirements, provided that the specified Offer data shall include any overrides entered by the

   Transmission Provider at the request of the Market Participant that owns or represents the

   Resource:

   (a)    A Generation Resource, Demand Response Resource-Type II, Electric Storage Resource,

          or External Asynchronous Resource must offer flexibly for the Hour, pursuant to the

          following criteria:

          i.      Ability to be dispatched by the unit dispatch system, as determined by the

                  following: (1) Real-Time unit dispatch system control status is a 1 or 2; (2)

                  Operating limits used by the unit dispatch system must have an operating range of

                  greater than 1 MW; and, (3) Real-Time Ramp Rate is greater than 0 MW/minute,

                  in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the applicable

                  Dispatch Interval.

          ii.     If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals fail eligibility in an Hour, the

                  Resource will be ineligible for DAMAP for that Hour.

   (b)    A Demand Response Resource – Type I’s values in its offer components specified in

          39.2.5A(b) remain the same in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   (c)    The Day-Ahead Offer for a Resource, except for an Electric Storage Resource or Demand

          Response Resource – Type I, must meet the following requirements, if there is a non-zero

          Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy in the prior Hour:

          i.      For the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy in the current Hour, the price on the

                  Day-Ahead Energy Offer in the current Hour must not decrease by greater than




                                                                              Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                         40.3.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 DAMAP Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                        45.0.0


                 ten percent (10%) from the price on the Day-Ahead Energy Offer in the prior

                 Hour.

          ii.    The Day-Ahead limit in the current Hour must not increase by greater than five

                 times the day-ahead Hourly Ramp Rate from the Day-Ahead limit in the prior

                 Hour.

                 The Day-Ahead limit in the current Hour is equal to: The maximum of: (1) the

                 Day-Ahead Hourly Economic Minimum Limit in the current Hour; or (2) the as-

                 committed self-schedule MW in the current Hour for instances where the Energy

                 Dispatch Status in the current Hour is self-schedule.

                 The Day-Ahead limit in the prior Hour is equal to: The maximum of: (1) the Day-

                 Ahead Schedule for Energy in the prior Hour; (2) the Day-Ahead Hourly

                 Economic Minimum Limit in the prior Hour; or (3) the as-committed self-

                 schedule MW in the prior Hour for instances where the Energy Dispatch Status in

                 the prior Hour is self-schedule.

          iii.   If the Resource fails any of the above Day-Ahead Offer eligibility criteria, the

                 Resource will be ineligible for DAMAP for the given Hour.

   (d)    The Resource Offer Up and Down Ramp Capability Dispatch Status must be Economic

          in the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Markets. This criterion

          will be checked for each Dispatch Interval within the Hour and for each Hour of the Day-

          Ahead Transmission Provider Commitment Period, sequentially. If four or more

          consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an Hour fail to meet this criterion, the Resource will be

          ineligible for DAMAP in that Hour.




                                                                             Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                        40.3.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                DAMAP Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                       45.0.0


   (e)    The offered Short-Term Reserve Dispatch Status for a Short-Term Reserve Qualified

          Resource, except for Demand Response Resource – Type I, must be Economic in the

          Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market. This criterion will be checked for each Dispatch Interval

          within the Hour and for each Hour of the Day-Ahead Transmission Provider

          Commitment Period, sequentially. If four or more consecutive Dispatch Intervals in an

          Hour fail to meet this criterion, the Resource will be ineligible for DAMAP in that Hour.

   (f)    For an Electric Storage Resource, the Day-Ahead Commitment Status must be equal to

          the Real-Time Commitment Status. This criterion will be checked for each Dispatch

          Interval within the Hour and for each Hour of the Day-Ahead Transmission Provider

          Commitment Period, sequentially. If a Dispatch Interval in an Hour fails to meet this

          criterion, the Resource will be ineligible for DAMAP in that Hour.




                                                                            Effective On: July 19, 2025
MISO                                                                                            40.3.6.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Calculation of DAMAP.
MODULES                                                                                           35.0.0


          Resources that satisfy the eligibility criteria set forth above shall receive a DAMAP in

   each eligible Hour that the Resource’s Day-Ahead Margin has been eroded as calculated in

   accordance with Schedule 27. The calculation assesses whether any Day-Ahead Margins have

   been eroded through the following of Transmission Provider instructions independently for each

   eligible Hour. A Resource will receive a DAMAP in an eligible Hour if the Resource’s Day-

   Ahead Margins have been eroded after including any positive real-time margins associated with

   real-time cleared Energy and/or Operating Reserve in excess of Day-Ahead Schedules for

   Energy and/or Operating Reserve, Short-Term Reserve credit, Up Ramp Capability Credit and

   Down Ramp Capability Credit in that eligible Hour.

          The calculation of the DAMAP is performed in three steps for eligible Hours. The first

   step determines adjustments to Day-Ahead Schedules to account for real-time de-rates on a

   Dispatch Interval basis. The second step determines the Day-Ahead Margin reduction associated

   with the adjusted Day-Ahead Schedules for Energy, Regulating Reserve, Spinning Reserve

   and/or Supplemental Reserve associated with following dispatch, including any offsetting real-

   time margins associated with real-time cleared Energy and/or Operating Reserve in excess of the

   Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy and/or Operating Reserve, on a Dispatch Interval basis, Short-

   Term Reserve credit, Up Ramp Capability Credit and Down Ramp Capability Credit. The third

   step determines the DAMAP for an Hour. Each step of the calculation is described in

   Schedule 27.




                                                                        Effective On: December 7, 2021
MISO                                                                                 40.3.6.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Allocation/recovery of DAMAP
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


                              The sum of the DAMAPs made in an Hour shall be funded

                       through an assessment of debits on all Market Participants on a

                       pro-rata basis, based on their Market Load Ratio Share.




                                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                            40.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         40.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                            Transmission Usage Charges in the Real-Time EORM
MODULES                                                                                      38.0.0


   Transmission Usage Charges in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market:

   a.     Interchange Schedules submitted to be considered in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market are subject to Interchange Schedule Charges based on the Real-Time

   Ex Post LMP at the Interface where they enter or exit the Transmission Provider Region. The

   Transmission Provider shall charge a Transmission Usage Charge to all Market Participants

   submitting new or Interchange Schedules after the 1030 hours EPT (after the deadline for

   submitting Interchange Schedules to be considered in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market).

   b.     For Export Schedules or Import Schedules, the Transmission Usage Charge for each

   Hour will be the sum of products of: (i) the amount of Energy in MWh scheduled to be

   withdrawn by the Market Participant in each Dispatch Interval of the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market, minus the amount of Energy submitted to be considered in the Day-

   Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market through an Interchange Schedule (possibly zero

   (0)) to be withdrawn by that Market participant in that Hour, in MWh; and (ii) the Real-Time Ex

   Post LMP at the Commercial Pricing Node for the relevant Interface.

   c.     Interchange Schedules that represent Through Transactions are subject to Transmission

   Usage Charges based on the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Interface where they enter or exit the

   Transmission Provider Region. The Transmission Usage Charge for each Hour will be the sum

   of the products of: (i) the amount of Energy scheduled to be withdrawn by that Market

   Participant in each Dispatch Interval of the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market,

   minus the amount of Energy submitted to be considered in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

   Reserve Market (possibly zero (0) for new Real-Time Interchange Schedules) to be withdrawn




                                                                            Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                         40.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                            Transmission Usage Charges in the Real-Time EORM
MODULES                                                                                      38.0.0


   by that Market Participant in that Hour, in MWh; and (ii) the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the

   Commercial Pricing Node for the Interface relevant to the Interchange Schedule Delivery Point,

   minus the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Commercial Pricing Node of the Interface relevant to

   the Interchange Schedule Receipt Point.

   d.     The Transmission Provider shall divide each Transmission Usage Charge or the Real-

   Time Interchange Schedule Charges into separate components for Cost of Congestion and the

   Cost of Losses.

          i.     Cost of Congestion. The Cost of Congestion shall be calculated as the (a) MWh

                 quantity multiplied by the (b) Marginal Congestion Component of the Real-Time

                 Ex Post LMP at the Interface for the Interchange Schedule Delivery Point minus

                 the Marginal Congestion Component of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the

                 Commercial Pricing Node for the Interchange Schedule Receipt Point; or the

                 MWh quantity multiplied by the Marginal Congestion Component of the Real-

                 Time Ex Post LMP at the Interface for transactions that are not Through

                 Transactions.

          ii.    Cost of Losses. The Cost of Losses shall be calculated as the (a) MWh quantity

                 multiplied by the (b) Marginal Losses Component of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP

                 at the Interface for the Interchange Schedule Delivery Point minus the Marginal

                 Losses Component of the Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Interface for the

                 Interchange Schedule Receipt Point; or the MWh quantity multiplied by the

                 Marginal Losses Component at the Interface for transactions that are not Through

                 Transactions.




                                                                            Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                             40.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Financial Schedule Settlements
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall collect and disburse a Transmission Usage Charge for

   all Financial Schedules designated to be settled in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market. The Transmission Usage Charge for the seller shall be the product of: (i) the amount of

   Energy scheduled, in MWh, and (ii) the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Delivery Point

   minus the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Source Point. The Transmission Usage

   Charges for the buyer on the Financial Schedule shall be the product of: (i) the amount of

   Energy scheduled, in MWh, and (ii) the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at Sink Point minus the

   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the specified Delivery Point.

         The Transmission Provider is not the Energy Market Counterparty to the sale of Energy

   under a Financial Schedule transaction and collects and disburses the Transmission Usage

   Charge for a Financial Schedule as agent for the buyer and seller.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                           40.5
FERC Electric Tariff                               Determination of Real-Time Marginal Loss Surplus
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                        The Transmission Provider shall calculate for each Hour of the Real-Time

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Market the Real-Time Marginal Losses Surplus, as

                 the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market Marginal Losses Surplus.

                 The Real-Time Marginal Losses Surplus is summed with the Day-Ahead

                 Marginal Losses Surplus, to determine the Marginal Losses Surplus, allocated to

                 Market Participants as described in Section 40.6.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          40.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Hourly Real-Time Marginal Loss Surplus
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall calculate for each Hour of the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market the Real-Time Marginal Losses Surplus as the Total Real-Time

   Charges for Energy and Operating Reserve Market Purchases, minus Total Real-Time Credits

   for Energy and Operating Reserve Market Sales, minus Total Real-Time Congestion Credits:

   a.     The total Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market charges for Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market Purchases for each Hour of the Real-Time Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market will be the sum across all Commercial Pricing Nodes of the

          Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP multiplied by the difference between: (i) Actual Energy

          Withdrawals; and (ii) Scheduled Withdrawals.

   b.     The total Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market credits for Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market Sales for each Hour of the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market will be the sum across all Nodes, Commercial Pricing Nodes, and Zones

          of the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP multiplied by the difference between: (i) Actual

          Energy Injections; and (ii) Scheduled Injections.

   c.     The total Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market congestion credits for each

          Hour of the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market will be the sum across all

          Nodes, Commercial Pricing Nodes, and Zones of:

                 i.      The Marginal Congestion Component multiplied by the difference

                         between: (a) Actual Energy Withdrawals; and (b) Scheduled

                         Withdrawals; minus

                 ii.     The Marginal Congestion Component multiplied by the difference

                         between: (a) Actual Energy Injections; and (b) Scheduled Injections.




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                      40.6
FERC Electric Tariff   Calculation and Distribution of Marginal Losses Surplus
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0




                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            40.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will refund to Load, the difference between Marginal Losses and

   average losses on a Local Balancing Authority basis as set forth in this Section 40.6.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              40.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0




                        The Transmission Provider shall calculate Marginal Losses Surplus as the

                 sum of the Day-Ahead Marginal Losses Surplus calculated pursuant to Section

                 39.3.5 and the Real-Time Marginal Losses Surplus calculated pursuant to Section

                 40.5 minus the determined value of Inadvertent Energy calculated pursuant to

                 Section 40.7. The Transmission Provider shall allocate the Marginal Losses

                 Surplus to Load in a manner that reflects the difference between Marginal Losses

                 and System Losses on a Local Balancing Authority Area basis as follows:

                               a.      The Transmission Provider shall calculate the Local

                                       Balancing Authority Marginal Losses Surplus Share by

                                       allocating the Marginal Losses Surplus to each Local

                                       Balancing Authority on a prorata basis per the cost of

                                       supplying losses to Load scheduled by Market Participants

                                       within the Balancing Authority Area, excluding any Load

                                       scheduled by GFA Responsible Entities.

                               b.      The Transmission Provider shall allocate the Local

                                       Balancing Authority Marginal Losses Surplus Share to

                                       Market Participants within each Local Balancing Authority

                                       Area on a prorata basis per their Market Load Ratio Share

                                       of the total Load in the Local Balancing Authority Area,

                                       excluding any Load scheduled and served by GFA




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                    40.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0


                       Responsible Entities.




                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               40.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Determination of Inadvertent Energy
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall track and settle for Inadvertent Energy between the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area and other Balancing Authority Areas in the Eastern

   Interconnection, pursuant to Applicable Reliability Standards. For the Inadvertent Energy flows

   between the MISO Balancing Authority Area and the PJM Interconnection, LLC, flows will be

   accounted for under the rates, terms and provisions of the Joint Operating Agreement as set forth

   in this Section, and shall report those amounts to the ERO and/or Applicable Reliability Entity.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            40.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Inadvertent Energy Accounting.
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider will financially value Inadvertent Energy for the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area. Any such Inadvertent Energy will be calculated hourly on a financial

   basis through the determination of an Inadvertent Energy Value (either a surplus or shortage), the

   Transmission Provider will sum the Inadvertent Energy Value to determine a daily total. The

   daily total of the Inadvertent Energy Value will be charged or credited to each Market Participant

   based on their share of the same billing determinants used for those determining charges

   pursuant to Schedule 17 for the Operating Day. Each Market Participant’s share of the daily

   total Inadvertent Energy Value will be expressed as a percentage based on their share of the

   Schedule 17 billing determinants as compared to the total Schedule 17 billing determinants for

   all Market Participants during the same Operating Day.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            40.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Joint Operating Agreement.
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          The settlement of Inadvertent Energy flows between the MISO Balancing Authority Area

   and the PJM Interconnection, LLC will be calculated and settled according to the rates, terms

   and conditions of the Joint Operating Agreement, MISO FERC Electric Tariff, Rate Schedule

   No. 5 and FERC Electric Tariff Rate Schedule No. 38.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 41
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Settlement Statements and Invoices
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall prepare Settlement Statements for each Market

   Participant, detailing each Market Participant’s cost responsibility. Settlement Statements shall

   provide sufficient detail to allow verification of the invoiced amounts and completion of the

   Market Participant’s internal accounting.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 41.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Settlement Statements
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


          Settlement Statement(s) will be made available for each Operating Day and will be

   published for Market Participants electronically on Business Days. The Market Participant is

   responsible for accessing the information once posted by the Transmission Provider. To issue a

   Settlement Statement, the Transmission Provider may use estimated, disputed or calculated

   Metered data and information in schedules. The Transmission Provider will create the applicable

   statements for each Operating Day.

          When actual validated data and schedule information are available and all of the

   settlement and invoice disputes raised by Market Participants during the validation process have

   been resolved, the Transmission Provider shall recalculate the amounts payable and receivable

   by the affected Market Participant. Settlement Statements will break down credits and charges

   by charge type. A schedule for resettlement will be published electronically by the Transmission

   Provider indicating that a specific Operating Day will be resettled and the date the Settlement

   Statement will be issued.




                                                                        Effective On: November 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                                 41.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Confirmation of Settlement Statements
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


          It is the responsibility of each Market Participant to notify the Transmission Provider if it

   fails to receive Settlement Statements on the date specified for issuance of such Settlement

   Statement. Each Market Participant shall be deemed to have received its Settlement Statement

   on the dates specified, unless it notifies the Transmission Provider to the contrary. If the

   Transmission Provider receives notice that a Settlement Statement has not been received, it will

   make reasonable attempts to provide the Settlement Statement to such Market Participant(s).

   The Settlement schedule will not be modified for a Market Participant’s failure to notify the

   Transmission Provider of a missing Settlement Statement.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        IV.
FERC Electric Tariff FINANCIAL TRANSMISSION RIGHTS AND AUCTION REVENUE RIGHTS
MODULES                                                                  32.0.0


         The Transmission Provider shall make available Financial Transmission Rights (FTRs)

  within the Transmission Provider Region to provide a financial hedging mechanism for

  managing the risk of congestion charges reflected in Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs. FTRs will not

  protect Market Participants from congestion charges related to Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMPs.

  The Transmission Provider shall make available Auction Revenue Rights (ARRs) that will

  determine entitlements to a share of the revenues generated in the annual FTR Auction.




                                                                         Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                                  42
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Types of FTRs and ARRs
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


          The Transmission Provider will provide FTR Obligations and, when feasible, FTR

   Options. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a list of possible FTR Receipt Points and

   FTR Delivery Points as specified in FTR Obligations and in FTR Options.

          The Transmission Provider will provide ARR Obligations under this section, and

   administer MTPS ARRs under Section 47. The Transmission Provider shall maintain a list of

   possible baseload and peak Reserved Source Points (RSPs) and ARR Zones as specified in the

   ARR Obligations. ARR Zones will include the following two general categories. Category 1

   shall consist of Network Integration Transmission Service OASIS reservation Points of Delivery

   existing during the Reference Year, including external interface Commercial Nodes for Point-

   To-Point exports. Category 2 shall consist of subzones within the Network Integration

   Transmission Service Points of Delivery that will be established where required to support state

   jurisdictional accounting obligations or where supported by transmission and Energy supply

   arrangements during the Reference Year and that meet the qualification criteria as described in

   the following paragraphs.

          A Market Participant will provide the Transmission Provider with the specific terms and

   conditions in such transmission and Energy supply arrangements to substantiate the designation

   of a Category 2 ARR Zone.

          Category 2 ARR Zones requested by a single or multiple Market Participants to satisfy

   state statutory or regulatory jurisdictional requirements to separate Load according to state

   boundaries will be considered valid subzones within a single Category 1 ARR Zone. The

   requesting Market Participant(s) must specify the native Load delivery points and the qualifying

   Generation Resources associated with the Category 2 ARR Zone requested to separate Loads




                                                                        Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 42
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Types of FTRs and ARRs
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   according to state boundaries. Requests for Category 2 ARR Zones for purposes other than to

   satisfy state jurisdictional requirements must be supported by i) Point-To-Point Transmission

   Service, Network Integration Transmission Service or GFA service agreements (including any

   relevant supporting documentation where transmission service agreements in effect are unclear)

   specifying delivery locations representing native Load delivery points and by ii) power supply

   contracts or specifying the set of qualifying supply resources and/or Generation Resources

   associated with those Load delivery locations. Market Participants must indicate the electrical

   representation of their native Load delivery points in terms of the Transmission Provider’s

   Elemental Pricing Nodes (EPNodes), which may necessitate or involve the sharing of EPNodes

   by agreement between or among affected Market Participants. Requests to establish two or more

   ARR Zones that share identical or nearly identical EPNode definitions will not be permitted

   unless such definition is clearly supported by the effective transmission service agreements and

   any supporting documentation. Once the Transmission Provider has determined that a request to

   establish a Category 2 ARR Zone meets the criteria as defined in this Section, it will be adopted

   as such.

          If the Transmission Provider determines that the request for a Category 2 ARR Zone

   definition does not meet the above criteria based on the data furnished by the requesting Market

   Participant, the corresponding Load delivery locations will be included in the qualifying ARR

   Zone where the native Load delivery points are electrically represented. If the Transmission

   Provider determines that the establishment of a requested Category 2 ARR Zone will preclude or

   limit a Market Participant(s) that otherwise qualifies to request and receive LTTRs, the request

   will be denied. Once defined, the ARR Zone definitions will not change over time to match




                                                                      Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                                 42
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Types of FTRs and ARRs
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   changing Load Zone configurations, but will be modified to accommodate the retirement of, or

   addition of new, load EPNodes within the established ARR Zone. In addition, the Transmission

   Provider may terminate or redefine one or more existing Category 2 ARR Zones in connection

   with the integration of a new Transmission Owner when all of the following conditions are met:

   i) the new Transmission Owner or its customer requests such termination or redefinition for the

   integration; ii) the native Load delivery points of the Category 2 ARR Zones were part of other

   existing Transmission Owners prior to the integration of the new Transmission Owner; and iii)

   the native Load delivery points in (ii) have or will become part of the new Transmission Owner

   upon integration. Upon the satisfaction of all the conditions, the Transmission Provider may

   convert any such Category 2 ARR Zone into a Category 1 ARR Zone, or combine any such two

   or more Category 2 ARR Zones into a single Category 1 ARR Zone, when reasonably warranted

   by the integration of the new Transmission Owner.

          The Reference Year for all initial ARR Zones at the start of the Annual ARR Allocation

   process shall be comprised of the four Seasons starting March 2004 and ending February 2005.

   For any ARR Zone added after the start of Annual ARR Allocation process as a result of an

   expansion of the Transmission Provider Region, the Reference Year shall be comprised of the

   four most recent complete Seasons just prior to the Annual ARR Registration associated with the

   integration of the applicable ARR Zone. When the expansion of the Transmission Provider

   Region becomes effective after the start of the allocation year, Transmission Customers in the

   newly integrated ARR Zones shall be eligible to participate in a partial-year allocation of FTRs

   for the remainder of such allocation year pursuant to Section 42.6 of this Tariff. The




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                            42
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Types of FTRs and ARRs
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


   Transmission Provider shall terminate all ARR Zones of a Transmission Owner upon its

   departure from the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                  Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                             42.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  FTR Obligations
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


                        For a given Hour that falls within the FTR Period and term, an FTR

                 Obligation confers on its FTR Holder appropriate debits or credits. In an

                 applicable Hour, an FTR Obligation will provide the FTR Holder with credits

                 when the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the

                 FTR Delivery Points is greater than the Marginal Congestion Component of the

                 Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP at the FTR Receipt Points. Conversely, in an applicable

                 Hour, an FTR Obligation will impose on its FTR Holder charges when the

                 Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP of the FTR

                 Delivery Point is less than the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-

                 Ahead Ex Post LMP of the FTR Receipt Point. The settlement of FTRs shall be

                 consistent with Section 39.3.4.




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                              42.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       FTR Options
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


          For a given Hour that falls within the FTR Period and Term, an FTR Option confers

   credits on the FTR Holder when the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post

   LMP at the FTR Delivery Points is greater than the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-

   Ahead Ex Post LMP at the FTR Receipt Point. There will be no charge (financial obligation) to

   the FTR Holder when the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP of

   the FTR Delivery Point is less than the Marginal Congestion Component of the Day-Ahead Ex

   Post LMP of the FTR Receipt Point. The set of FTR Receipt Points and the set of FTR Delivery

   Points that are specified for an FTR Option are a subset of those specified for FTR Obligations.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                               42.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 FTR Specifications
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                        An FTR is specified by: (i) an FTR Receipt Point; (ii) an FTR Delivery

                 Point; (iii) an FTR Quantity; (iv) whether the right is an Obligation or an Option;

                 (v) an FTR Period (peak/off peak); and (vi) an FTR term. The FTR Receipt Point

                 and FTR Delivery Point specified in a given FTR (Obligation or Option) may be

                 any one of the following:

                                        Node for the relevant Generation Resource.

                                        Hub.

                                        Load Zone.

                                        Interface.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              42.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Settlement of ARRs
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          ARRs are settled based on the auction clearing prices from the annual FTR Auction. An

   ARR Obligation will provide the ARR Holder with credits when the value of the ARR

   Obligation is positive and will impose charges when the value of the ARR is negative. The value

   of the ARR Obligation is positive when the auction clearing price at the ARR Receipt Point

   (RSPs) is greater than the clearing price at the ARR Delivery Point (ARR Zone). Conversely, an

   ARR Obligation will impose charges on its ARR Holder when the clearing price of the ARR

   Delivery Point is greater than the clearing price of the ARR Receipt Point.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               42.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 ARR Specifications
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


             An ARR is specified by: (i) an ARR Receipt Point; (ii) an ARR Delivery Point; (iii) an

   ARR Quantity; (iv) an ARR Period (on-peak/off peak); (v) an ARR Term; (vi) whether the ARR

   is an LTTR; (viii) whether the ARR is feasible or infeasible; and (viii) whether the ARR is a year

   1 counterflow LTTR. The ARR Receipt Point shall be the CPNode for the relevant RSP or an

   Interface. The ARR Delivery Point shall be a Category 1 or 2 ARR Zone or an Interface

   CPNode. The RSP shall be a designated Network Resource pursuant to Section 1.217 of this

   Tariff.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           42.6
FERC Electric Tariff                        Partial-Year FTR Allocation Process for New ARR Zone(s)
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0




                        A Partial-Year FTR Allocation will be conducted for the Market

                 Participant in the new ARR Zones added as a result of Transmission Provider

                 Region expansion that becomes effective after the start of the Annual ARR

                 Allocation period. The Partial-Year FTR Allocation will cover the period of time

                 when the new ARR Zones become effective up to the start of the next Annual

                 ARR Allocation. For the partial year period, the Market Participants in new ARR

                 Zone(s) may request an allocation of FTRs, which will be in lieu of an allocation

                 of ARRs.

                        As part of the integration of new ARR Zones, the Transmission Provider

                 will conduct a mid-cycle Annual ARR Registration for the Market Participants in

                 the new ARR Zone(s). The ARR registration process will be held according to

                 Section 43.2.1 of the Tariff, with the Reference Year comprised of the four full

                 seasons prior to the Annual ARR Registration associated with the integration of

                 the applicable ARR Zones. Market Participants must provide data that satisfies

                 the same requirements as laid out in Sections 42 and 43. The Partial-Year FTR

                 Allocation and the ensuing Annual ARR Allocation will use the ARR

                 Entitlements from the mid-cycle ARR registration. To meet the Generation

                 Resource Qualification Requirements, Market Participants may request the

                 exception described in Section 43.2.1.a.ii.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          42.6
FERC Electric Tariff                       Partial-Year FTR Allocation Process for New ARR Zone(s)
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        The Partial-Year FTR Allocation will consist of a single-round nomination

                 and allocation using the Simultaneous Feasibility Test (SFT) similar to the

                 Annual ARR Allocation process. Market Participants of Network Integration

                 Transmission Service and Option A GFA Transmission Service may nominate up

                 to the Forecasted Peak Load (less the portion of the Load served under Carved-

                 Out or Option C GFAs) of the remaining seasons of the current ARR allocation

                 period. Market Participants of Point-to-Point Transmission Service may nominate

                 up to the eligible Point-to-Point Transmission Service MW amount. The Partial-

                 Year FTR Allocation and the allocated FTRs will cover the peak and off-peak

                 periods for each of the remaining seasons of the partial year. The process will be

                 conducted with base loading from the latest Annual FTR Auction models to

                 ensure the Simultaneous Feasibility of all existing FTRs. The Transmission

                 Provider will build seasonal allocation models to be used in the Partial-Year FTR

                 Allocation from data submitted for the Network and Commercial Models that

                 includes the information submitted by Market Participants in the new ARR

                 Zone(s). Transmission capacity resulting from updating the loopflow

                 assumptions will also be used for allocating FTRs to the Market Participants in

                 the new ARR Zone(s) during the Partial-Year FTR Allocation process. Market

                 Participants in the new ARR Zone(s) may participate in the monthly FTR

                 Auctions pursuant to Section 45 of the Tariff, following the Partial-Year FTR

                 Allocation, for each complete month beginning with the integration date.

                        In subsequent Annual ARR Allocation periods, the Market Participants




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           42.6
FERC Electric Tariff                        Partial-Year FTR Allocation Process for New ARR Zone(s)
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                 shall follow the nomination and allocation procedures specified in Section 43.2.4

                 for the allocation of ARRs. The Year 1 Annual ARR Allocation process for the

                 Market Participants in the new ARR Zones will be the first full allocation period

                 that begins immediately after the end of the partial year period.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 43
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Allocation of ARRs
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                 The Transmission Provider will conduct an Annual ARR Registration prior to

          every Annual ARR Allocation. The ARR Registration will involve the definition of ARR

          Entitlements. ARR Entitlements will be defined using the RSPs and ARR Zones that

          qualified during the Reference Year. For each ARR Zone, the Transmission Provider

          shall determine the RSP set based on the historical Reference Year and assign a pro rata

          amount of MW capability from each RSP to each Transmission Customer in the ARR

          Zone based on its proportion of peak Load in the ARR Zone. ARRs shall be allocated to

          each Transmission Customer in an ARR Zone from each RSP in a MW amount equal to

          or less than the amount of the RSP that has been assigned to the Network Customer. The

          ARR Entitlements will determine Market Participants’ Candidate ARRs (CARRs) that

          may be nominated and allocated during the Annual ARR Allocation. This process is

          further described in the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                     43.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Service Eligible for Conversion to ARRs
MODULES                                                                30.0.0




                                           Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             43.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Tariff Service Agreements
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Transmission Customers taking Transmission Service under this Tariff must convert their

   transmission rights applicable during the Reference Year to ARR Entitlements consistent with

   the procedures described herein. Transmission Customers taking Transmission Service for

   Loads Pseudo-tied out of the Transmission Provider Region are included in this conversion

   requirement. LSEs with external Loads (loads outside Transmission Provider footprint) may

   request ARR Entitlements pursuant to Section 43.2.1.a, 43.6.1 or 43.6.2 if they have existing

   agreements with the Transmission Provider to pay a share of the embedded costs of the

   Transmission System on a long-term basis to support Loads out of the Transmission Provider

   Region.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                               43.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Grandfathered Agreements
MODULES                                                                            30.0.0




                       a.   ARRs for Grandfathered Agreements. Market

                            Participants with Grandfathered Agreements must elect to

                            schedule and settle for Cost of Congestion as provided in

                            Section 38.8.3. Market Participants under Grandfathered

                            Agreements that select Option A as described in Section

                            38.8.3 convert rights to Transmission Service under

                            Grandfathered Agreements to ARR Entitlements.



                            Such converted Grandfathered Agreements shall be

                            comparable to the transmission service received by such

                            parties under their existing Grandfathered Agreements.

                            Under Option A, transmission rights under Grandfathered

                            Agreements are converted in their entirety to ARR

                            Entitlements. Market Participants with Option A

                            Grandfathered Agreements may be allocated ARRs and

                            may self-schedule feasible ARRs in the annual FTR

                            Auction to convert those ARRs to FTRs.

                       b.   Election of Conversion: Market Participants intending to

                            convert transmission rights contained in Grandfathered

                            Agreements to ARR Entitlements during the Annual ARR

                            Allocation shall notify the Transmission Provider of such




                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                            43.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Grandfathered Agreements
MODULES                                                                         30.0.0


                       intent during ARR Registration. Procedures for such

                       notification are specified in the Business Practices

                       Manuals. Market Participants requesting ARR

                       Entitlements for Grandfathered Agreements must follow

                       the nomination and allocation procedures established for

                       service conversion under the Tariff and as further described

                       in the Business Practices Manuals.

                       Market Participants that elect not to convert their existing

                       rights under Grandfathered Agreements to ARR

                       Entitlements may convert the GFA service at the following

                       Annual ARR Allocation. Market Participants intending to

                       convert Grandfathered Agreements to ARR Entitlements

                       must follow the nomination and allocation procedures

                       established for service conversion under the Tariff as set

                       forth in the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                   43.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Allocation and Nomination Procedures
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                           Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                a.     All Point-To-Point Transmission Service of annual or longer duration and

                       RSPs that meet the Resource Qualification Requirements and the RSPs

                       valid for at least one full Season, but less than all four Seasons, and Option

                       A Grandfathered Agreements as specified in Section 38.8.3.a, are eligible

                       for conversion of their existing rights to ARRs in the Annual ARR

                       Allocation process.

                       Point-To-Point Transmission Service starting with dates after the

                       Reference Year will be eligible for conversion of existing rights to ARR

                       Entitlements pursuant to Section 43.6 and Section 46 of this Tariff. The

                       path which existed during the Reference Year will be used to define the

                       LTTR and will not change in subsequent years. For Point-to-Point

                       Transmission Service that has been granted different capacities in different

                       months, the Transmission Provider will use the minimum granted capacity

                       in an allocation Season as the ARR Entitlement for that Season.

                       When Point-To-Point Transmission Service with rollover rights expires

                       during the Annual ARR Allocation period, Market Participants may elect

                       to register ARR Entitlements for the rollover period. The Market

                       Participant will then be eligible to nominate, and be allocated ARRs

                       during the Annual ARR Allocation for such Transmission Service. If the

                       Market Participant does not exercise rollover rights pertaining to that

                       Transmission Service on the Transmission Provider’s OASIS, the

                       Transmission Provider shall terminate such allocated ARRs or the self-




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                       scheduled FTR of such Transmission Service when the Transmission

                       Service terminates. All Market Participants that have existing rights and

                       are eligible to nominate and hold ARRs must participate in the ARR

                       registration procedures specified in this Section 43.2 to preserve their

                       entitlements under the Service Agreement, or Grandfathered Agreements

                       for Market Participants that elect Option A. During the Annual ARR

                       Registration, Market Participants must register their existing rights by

                       providing information requested by the Transmission Provider.

                       The ARR Entitlements from the first year of the Annual ARR Registration

                       will only change if any Baseload Reserved Source Set (BRSS) or the Peak

                       Reserved Source Set (PRSS) RSPs were terminated or replaced. ARR

                       Entitlements for any newly added BRSS or PRSS RSPs will be created

                       during the Annual ARR Registration.

                        i.      Generation Resource Qualification Requirement. Under the

                                Generation Resource Qualification Requirements, in order for a

                                Generation Resource to qualify for inclusion as a Reserved

                                Source Point in the BRSS or PRSS, a qualified Market

                                Participant must have had a Capacity and Energy ownership

                                interest in, or a Capacity and Energy contract with, the

                                Generation Resource that either began in the Reference Year,

                                ended in the Reference Year, or remained in effect throughout

                                the Reference Year for the applicable ARR Zone. Only




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                    43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                 30.0.0


                       designated Network Resources are eligible for BRSS and PRSS

                       designation in connection with Network Integration

                       Transmission Service.

                       An ARR Zone may be a RSP under the following exceptions:

                       (a) if the ARR Zone contains behind-the-meter generation

                       specified as a GFA resource committed to in GFA proceedings

                       before the FERC and (b) pursuant to exceptions set forth in

                       Section 43.2.3.



                       If the Transmission Service for such owned Generation

                       Resources or contracted for Generation Resources was approved,

                       but is not yet in service during the Reference Year, or the

                       Generation Resource was under construction, but was not yet in

                       service during the Reference Year, the Generation Resource will

                       qualify for inclusion in the BRSS or PRSS, provided that

                       deliveries under the contracted for Generation Resource or

                       owned Generation Resource began prior to December 31, 2005.

                       In the event the entire MW capacity of the Generation Resource

                       is greater than the Market Participant’s owned MW amount or

                       contracted for MW amount, only the Capacity and Energy MW

                       amount owned or contracted for shall qualify.

                       This ownership or contractual relationship must be, or have been,




                                                           Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                             for at least five (5) years, and that either relationship began in the

                             Reference Year, ended in the Reference Year, or remained in

                             effect throughout the Reference Year for the applicable ARR

                             Zone, as verified by the Transmission Provider. Contracts

                             qualify if they include rollover rights that were exercised in such

                             a way that the duration of the contracts was effective for a

                             minimum of five (5) years. Generation Resources shared by

                             multiple Market Participants may be split between or among

                             multiple ARR Zones of such Market Participants in proportion to

                             their ownership or contractual interest in the Generation

                             Resources, and the amount of Load each Market Participant

                             actually serves with such Generation Resources. If two Market

                             Participants have contracts that meet all of the above

                             qualification requirements for the same Generation Resource,

                             such that the exact same megawatts (MWs) from the Generation

                             Resource would otherwise qualify as a Reserved Source Point for

                             more than one ARR Zone, then the Market Participant that

                             contracted with the Generation Resource most recently will be

                             given priority in determining the ARR Zone for which the

                             Generation Resource will serve as a Reserved Source Point.

                       ii.   Generation Resource Qualification Requirement Exception for

                             Insufficient PRSS to Meet Baseload Usage. To the extent that




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              the qualification requirements result in any Market Participant

                              having insufficient MWs in its PRSS to meet its Baseload Usage

                              within a given ARR Zone, the Generation Resource Qualification

                              Requirements for the ownership or contractual duration for that

                              Market Participant within that ARR Zone will be reduced from

                              the required five (5) year duration to a one (1) year duration for

                              the PRSS up to the Market Participant’s Baseload Usage.

                              This exception will apply only to the initial determination of

                              Reserved Source Sets during year 1 of the Annual ARR

                              Registration and any Resources added to the PRSS under this

                              exception are not eligible for nomination in Stage 1A of the

                              Annual ARR Allocation and thus will not receive LTTR status.

                              Any future additions or substitutions shall be required to meet

                              the five (5) year ownership or contractual duration requirement.

                              This Section does not permit a Market Participant with,

                              ownership or contractual duration in a supply Resource of less

                              than five (5) years, to participate under Stage 1A to receive

                              LTTRs.

                       iii.   Baseload Usage: Baseload Usage shall consist of fifty percent

                              (50%) of Peak Usage. For Market Participants utilizing Point-

                              To-Point Transmission Service fifty percent (50%) of the Point-




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                             To-Point Transmission Service(s) MW amount will be assumed

                             to be Baseload Usage.

                       iv.   Peak Usage: Peak Usage shall be defined as a Market

                             Participant’s Total Forecasted Peak Load usage in a given ARR

                             Zone for the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation period.

                       v.    Generation Resource Qualification Requirement Exception for

                             Insufficient BRSS to Meet Baseload Usage: To the extent that

                             the Generation Resource Qualification Requirements result in

                             any Market Participant having insufficient RSPs in its BRSS to

                             meet its Baseload Usage for a given ARR Zone, the Market

                             Participant may utilize the following rules to request the creation

                             of additional BRSS entitlements, not to exceed its Baseload

                             Usage. These supplemental rules will apply only: (1) to the

                             initial determination of the BRSS for areas integrated into the

                             Transmission Provider Region after the effective date of these

                             supplemental rules and (2) during the first Annual ARR

                             Registration following the effective date of these exceptions, for

                             areas integrated into the Transmission Provider Region prior to

                             the effective date of these supplemental rules. Each Market

                             Participant in this category (2) is eligible to add BRSS

                             entitlements up to at least its year 1 BRSS entitlement gap or the




                                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                   43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                30.0.0


                       BRSS gap existing in the first Annual Registration following the

                       effectiveness of these supplemental rules.


                       If the Market Participant declines to accept an eligible Baseload

                       RSP defined under the first supplemental rule, no further BRSS

                       additions maybe made for that Market Participant under the

                       second supplemental rule.


                       Supplemental BRSS entitlements may only be added in the order

                       specified below. An RSP shall not under these provisions be

                       subscribed above its maximum capacity.

                            1. Term Reduction: While maintaining the 50% capacity

                            factor Generation Resource Qualification Requirement for

                            Baseload Supply Resources, the Transmission Provider will

                            implement requests by the Market Participant for a

                            reduction of the ownership or contractual duration for that

                            Market Participant from the required five (5) year duration

                            to a one (1) year duration, for PPAs that serve load in the

                            Market Participant’s ARR Zone. Twelve rolling monthly

                            firm transmission reservations, valid during the Reference

                            Year, will be eligible if that monthly service is converted

                            into a confirmed long-term firm transmission service and




                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                              43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                              Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                           30.0.0


                       the conversion is evident at the time of initial ARR

                       registration.

                       ARR Entitlements created under this rule will be defined

                       commencing from the longest duration transmission service

                       to the shortest duration transmission service. For

                       entitlements based on ownership or contractual duration of

                       three (3) years or less, Market Participants shall provide the

                       capacity factor data for the RSP for the full length of the

                       ownership or contract.

                       2. Heat Rate Stack: If the first supplemental rule, set forth

                       in subsection v.1 above, does not provide sufficient RSPs

                       to create BRSS entitlements satisfying a Market

                       Participant’s Baseload Usage, the Market Participant may

                       then utilize the heat rate stack rule. While maintaining the

                       Generation Resource Qualification Requirement ownership

                       or contractual requirement of five (5) year duration, the

                       Transmission Provider will allow the creation of BRSS

                       entitlements for non-BRSS RSPs entitlements. BRSS

                       entitlements created under this rule will be determined

                       using the most recent annual average heat rate data

                       available for the initial Annual ARR Registration. The

                       remaining BRSS entitlement deficiency may be mitigated




                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                                      by adding these RSPs from the lowest to the highest heat

                                      rates to the applicable ARR Zone.

                        vi.     A Market Participant may reject BRSS entitlements created

                                under Section 43.2.1 (a)(v), provided that the rejection shall only

                                be permitted in the reverse order of how the entitlements were

                                created (i.e., shortest to longest duration under the first

                                supplemental rule, and highest to lowest heat rate under the

                                second supplemental rule, and provided further that a Market

                                Participant that rejects BRSS entitlements under this Section is

                                not precluded from including the applicable resources into the

                                PRSS in accordance with Section 43.2.1(a)(ii).



                 b.    The Transmission Provider shall verify such information as consistent

                       with the terms of the Transmission Service for which the existing

                       entitlement is claimed. Any Market Participant that fails to provide all of

                       the information requested during the Annual ARR Registration period will

                       be deemed to have waived any rights to nominate in the Annual ARR

                       Allocation process but may remain subject to Counterflow ARR

                       Assignment.

                 c.    For year 1 of the implementation of the Annual ARR Allocation process,

                       Market Participants will be required to provide information requested by

                       the Transmission Provider that will establish the RSPs, ARR Zones,




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             43.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Registration of Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                       BRSS, and PRSS for the Point-To-Point, Network Integration

                       Transmission Service and GFA rights. For year 2 and beyond, Market

                       Participants will need to provide additional information to add or modify

                       the original BRSS or PRSS. For Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       Market Participants will provide ARR Receipt Point and ARR Delivery

                       Point information consistent with the confirmed transmission service

                       request registered on OASIS and pursuant to Sections 42.5, 43.2.1.a and

                       43.2.3.

                 d.    Year 1 of the Annual ARR Allocation will be defined as the first

                       allocation year in which the Transmission Provider conducted the Annual

                       ARR Allocation for an ARR Zone.

                 e.    Prior to the start of every Annual ARR Allocation, Market Participants

                       with Candidate Baseload or Candidate Peak ARR Rights may request the

                       Transmission Provider to transfer ownership of such rights in its entirety

                       to another Market Participant.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          43.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Registration of Grandfathered Agreements
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              Any party to an agreement that remains in effect for transmission

                       service, Energy, or a combination thereof, that was executed prior to

                       September 16, 1998 and applicable during the Reference Year, has rights

                       to participate in the annual ARR nomination process (Option A), or to

                       request refunds of congestion costs in the Day-Ahead Energy and

                       Operating Reserve Market (Option B). To protect such rights, parties to

                       Grandfathered Agreements must participate in the Annual ARR

                       Registration process. During the registration period, Market Participants

                       must register their existing entitlements contained in Grandfathered

                       Agreements by providing information requested by the Transmission

                       Provider, including: information about contractual source, sink, term, MW

                       quantity, and OASIS reservation numbers where appropriate. When

                       registering Grandfathered Agreements, the parties may assign any MW

                       value to their Grandfathered Agreement, not to exceed the maximum

                       value of their existing entitlement contained in the Grandfathered

                       Agreement. For purposes of this Section, a GFA Responsible Entity shall

                       be entitled to specify multiple RSPs and ARR Zones, consistent with its

                       existing entitlements. With regard to GFAs involving multiple RSPs and

                       ARR Zones, the GFA Responsible Entity shall provide information

                       identifying each RSP and ARR Zone combination. The Transmission

                       Provider shall verify such information as consistent with the terms of the

                       Grandfathered Agreement for which the existing entitlement is claimed.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                      43.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Registration of Grandfathered Agreements
MODULES                                                   30.0.0




                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          43.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Registration of ARR Receipt Points as LBAAs
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              During year 1 of the Annual ARR Registration, if the Points of

                       Receipt for a Point-To-Point Transmission Service reservation, Network

                       Integration Transmission Service reservation, or Grandfathered

                       Agreements reservation are specified as a Local Balancing Authority

                       Area, the existing entitlement shall be defined in terms of RSPs within that

                       Local Balancing Authority Area.

                              The Transmission Provider shall define the ARR Receipt Point for

                       the Network Integration Transmission Service entitlements as the default

                       set of RSPs when the Point of Receipt of such entitlements is a Local

                       Balancing Authority Area.

                              The Transmission Provider shall accommodate a definition of the

                       ARR Receipt Point, for the Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       identified during the registration process and for all Grandfathered

                       Agreements, as a specific set of RSPs when the Market Participant

                       registering such existing entitlements and the Market Participant for the

                       RSPs are in agreement as to the ARR Receipt Point definition.

                              When the Market Participant registering the existing entitlement

                       and the Market Participant for the RSPs do not agree as to the ARR

                       Receipt Point definition, then, for Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       identified during the registration process as supporting a generation

                       Capacity transaction and for all Grandfathered Agreements, the use of that

                       Local Balancing Authority Area shall be the default set of RSPs.



                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           43.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Registration of ARR Receipt Points as LBAAs
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              When the Market Participant registering the existing entitlement

                       and the Market Participant for the source Commercial Pricing Nodes do

                       not agree as to the ARR Receipt Point definition, then, for Point-To-Point

                       Transmission Service not identified during the registration process as

                       supporting generation capacity transactions, the use of the ARR Zone,

                       within the Local Balancing Authority Area shall be the default ARR

                       source. Multiple existing entitlements shall be defined when the Point of

                       Receipt includes more than one (1) generation Commercial Pricing Node.

                              If the Transmission Provider determines that two or more existing

                       entitlements represent hubbing transactions in which a set of existing

                       entitlements are used to deliver power to the Local Balancing Authority

                       Area while another set of existing entitlements are used to transport that

                       power from the Local Balancing Authority Area, the Transmission

                       Provider may use an ARR Zone or a Hub as the ARR Delivery Point

                       corresponding to the first set of existing entitlements that deliver power to

                       the Local Balancing Authority Area and as the ARR Receipt Point

                       corresponding to the second set of existing entitlements that transport the

                       power from the Local Balancing Authority Area.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                              Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                      34.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall make ARRs for existing entitlements registered through

   the Annual ARR Registration process available to Market Participants based on a multi-stage

   allocation/nomination methodology. In each stage, the Transmission Provider shall provide

   Market Participants with the opportunity to be allocated ARRs from RSPs as described in

   Section 43.2.4a, based on the Peak Usage. Market Participants representing LSEs with service

   obligations shall be entitled to participate in Stage 1A, provided, that, the Transmission Provider

   may give priority to LSEs with long-term power supply arrangements in Stage 1A when the

   Transmission Provider needs to limit the amount of existing transmission capacity available for

   Stage 1A to a level that is able to support the reasonable needs of all LSEs.

          The Transmission Provider shall provide two (2) nomination and allocation stages for

   Network Integration Transmission Service plus all Option A and Option B Grandfathered

   Agreements and for all Point-To-Point Transmission Service. For each stage and each category,

   within each stage, ARR nomination eligibility will be equal to maximum nomination eligibility

   (total of forecast Peak Network Load served under Network Integration Transmission Service

   plus Grandfathered Service; or total Point-To-Point reservation amount multiplied by an ARR

   Stage Factor less the MW quantity of ARRs allocated in any previous stage; provided, that a

   Market Participant may aggregate the total MW of its Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

   reservations and allocate them between eligible Points of Delivery and Points of Receipt. The

   ARR Stage Factors shall be:

          Stage 1A:       Fifty percent (50%) of Peak Usage; otherwise the Candidate Baseload

                          ARR Rights.




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                       43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                            Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                    34.0.0


          Stage 1B:      One hundred percent (100%) of Peak Usage; otherwise the Candidate

                         Peak ARR Rights.

   These two stages constitute Stage 1.

          The Transmission Provider shall allocate ARRs to Market Participants in each stage only

   to the extent that the Transmission Provider determines that such ARRs satisfy its Simultaneous

   Feasibility Test (SFT). The Transmission Provider will allocate infeasible ARRs only to the

   extent needed to ensure the full MW allocation of Stage 1A nominated LTTRs from the prior

   year’s Annual ARR Allocation. Allocated ARRs are obligations.

   a.     Stage 1A – Nomination and Allocation Procedures.

          i.     The Transmission Provider will enter all LTTRs from the current Annual ARR

                 Allocation period into this stage. Market Participants are eligible to nominate

                 CARRs up to fifty percent (50%) of the sum of their forecasted Network

                 Integration Transmission Service peak load in each ARR Zone in which they

                 serve Load for the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation period, plus Option A and

                 Option B Grandfathered Agreements. This will constitute the Candidate Baseload

                 ARR Rights for each Market Participant. The source of the Candidate Baseload

                 ARR Rights will be any of the RSPs in the BRSS for each of the corresponding

                 ARR Zones up to the qualified Market Participant’s pro rata Load share of the

                 ARR Zone. Market Participants may request incremental or new nominations

                 from Stage 1A ARR Entitlements. Market Participants eligible to submit LTTR

                 termination requests pursuant to Section 43.2.5 may do so only during this stage.




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                        43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                             Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                     34.0.0


                 In addition, Market Participants are eligible to nominate up to fifty percent (50%)

                 of the reservation MW quantity for each of the applicable annual or longer Firm

                 Point-To-Point Transmission Service entitlement.

                 (a)    Baseload Resource Source Set. The BRSS shall consist of Baseload

                        Supply Resources that have met the Resource Qualification Requirements

                        for inclusion as a Reserved Source Point for a given ARR Zone and

                        entitlements created pursuant to Section 43.2.1(a)(v). Interfaces are

                        understood to serve as proxies for Baseload Supply Resources located

                        external to the Transmission Provider Region and are eligible for inclusion

                        in the BRSS.

                 (b)    Baseload Supply Resources. Baseload Supply Resources shall consist of

                        supply Resources with an average capacity factor of at least fifty percent

                        (50%) over the Reference Year and the two (2) years previous to the

                        Reference Year for a total of three (3) years, or the life of the unit to the

                        extent the unit had not been in operation for three (3) years up to and

                        including the Reference Year. In determining capacity factors for supply

                        Generation Resources, data from the single month of the 36-month period

                        with the lowest capacity factor for that supply Generation Resource will

                        be excluded.

                        For Point-To-Point Transmission Service Network Resources external to

                        the Transmission Provider Region, the holder of the service may opt to use

                        the above process to the extent that the supply Resource behind the




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                      43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                           Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                   34.0.0


                       Transmission Service can be identified, where the LSE has a Capacity and

                       Energy interest through a contract or ownership and the Capacity factor of

                       the Resource is at least fifty percent (50%).

                       The holder may also opt to use the scheduling factor of the Transmission

                       Service. If the scheduling factor of the Transmission Service or

                       comparable transmission service is used, that scheduling factor must also

                       be at least fifty percent (50%) to qualify as a Baseload Supply Resource.

                       For new Generation Resources, a class average for the technology type

                       shall be used.

                 (c)   Limitation to Baseload Usage. Since Candidate Baseload ARR Rights are

                       based on Baseload Usage in a given ARR Zone, a Market Participant

                       cannot request more ARRs sinking in a particular ARR Zone in Stage 1A

                       than their Baseload Usage in that ARR Zone.

                       Candidate ARRs (CARRs) equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the

                       Option B Grandfathered Agreements, that were registered with the

                       Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 43.2.2, are automatically

                       included in Stage 1A. The Transmission Provider shall not allocate to

                       Market Participants ARRs representing Option B Grandfathered

                       Agreements that are determined to be feasible.

                       Such ARRs are used by the Transmission Provider as an accounting

                       mechanism to determine revenue adequacy of any congestion cost refunds

                       to Option B Grandfathered Agreements. Stage 1A includes eight (8)




                                                                       Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                       43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                            Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                    34.0.0


                        independent nominations: one (1) of each of the four (4) Seasons and two

                        (2) time periods (On-Peak and Off-Peak). The Transmission Provider

                        shall perform an SFT for each season and time period for the Stage 1A

                        Candidate ARRs (“CARRs”). CARRs are curtailed in each season and

                        time period as required to achieve simultaneous feasibility, provided, that

                        LTTRs already allocated in the prior year shall not be curtailed.

          ii.    CARRs for Option B Grandfathered Agreements shall be included in the Stage

                 1A nomination at the full MW quantity of the existing entitlement that was

                 registered with the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 43.2.2, even if

                 these nominations exceed the Stage 1A cap for CARRs for Network Integration

                 Transmission Service plus Grandfathered Agreements.

                 CARRs for service under the Tariff and for Option A Grandfathered Agreements

                 may be nominated in addition to the Option B Grandfathered Agreements up to

                 the Stage 1A cap for CARRs for Network Integration Transmission Service plus

                 Grandfathered Agreements.

          iii.   Where the MW quantity of Option B Grandfathered Agreements exceeds the

                 Stage 1A limit for CARRs for Network Integration Transmission Service plus

                 Grandfathered Agreements, Stage 1A nominations for Network Integration

                 Transmission Service plus Grandfathered Agreements will include only Option B

                 Grandfathered Agreements. Any Option B Grandfathered Agreements over the

                 Stage 1A limit for CARRs for Network Integration Transmission Service plus

                 Grandfathered Agreements are taken into account in subsequent stages by




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                        43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                             Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                     34.0.0


                 reducing the size of subsequent stages for the purpose of determining nomination

                 eligibility for CARRs for Network Integration Transmission Service plus

                 Grandfathered Agreements.

          iv.    All new or incremental nominations in Stage 1A (i.e., nominations not associated

                 with allocated LTTRs in the prior-year) will be subject to the Simultaneous

                 Feasibility Test, and will be allocated only to the extent feasible. The

                 Simultaneous Feasibility Test will be performed on a market-wide, non-ARR

                 Zone basis.

          v.     In a Market Participant’s year 2 and ensuing Annual ARR Allocations, the Market

                 Participant is guaranteed the MW quantity for a Stage 1A CARR (candidate

                 LTTR) up to the current Annual ARR Allocation period’s corresponding LTTR

                 MW quantity. Where the LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage is unable to

                 fully allocate such CARR, the Transmission Provider will assign infeasible ARRs

                 for the un-restored MW portion of the CARR. The infeasible ARRs shall be

                 subject to the same settlement terms and conditions as other allocated ARRs. The

                 cost, if any, of infeasible ARRs will be funded by all Stage 1A ARR Holders (i.e.,

                 Long Term Transmission Rights (LTTR) holders) in the ratio share of the MW

                 quantity of LTTRs allocated in the current Annual ARR Allocation. The

                 allocated LTTRs for each Market Participant will be the sum of the allocated

                 LTTRs, the feasible and infeasible ARRs, assigned following the LTTR

                 Restoration and Termination Stage pursuant to Section 43.2.5.




                                                                      Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                         43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                              Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                      34.0.0


   b.     Stage 1B Nomination and Allocation Procedures. In Stage 1B, Market Participants are

          eligible to nominate CARRs up to one hundred percent (100%) of the sum of their

          forecasted Network Integration Transmission Service peak Load in each ARR Zone in

          which they serve Load for the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation period, plus Option A

          and Option B Grandfathered Agreements, less feasible LTTRs allocated in Stage 1A for

          Network Integration Transmission Service and Option A Grandfathered Agreements and

          less Option B Grandfathered Agreements. Any infeasible ARRs assigned following the

          LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage pursuant to Section 43.2.5 shall be deemed

          included in the Stage 1B Nomination. This will constitute the Candidate Peak ARR

          Rights for each Market Participant.

          The source for the Candidate Peak ARR Rights will be any of the RSPs in the Peak

          Reserved Source Set (PRSS) for each of the corresponding ARR Zones up to the

          qualified Market Participant’s pro rata Load share of the ARR Zone. The PRSS shall

          consist of all supply Resources, inclusive of Baseload Supply Resources, that have met

          the Resource Qualification Requirements for inclusion as a Reserved Source Point for a

          given ARR Zone, and entitlements created pursuant to Sections 43.2.1(a)(ii) and

          43.2.1(a)(v). Interfaces shall serve as proxies for supply.

          Resources located external to the Transmission Provider Region are eligible for inclusion

          in the PRSS. Since Candidate Peak ARR Rights are based on Peak Usage in a given

          ARR Zone, a Market Participant cannot request more ARRs sinking in a particular ARR

          Zone in this stage than their Peak Usage in that ARR Zone.




                                                                        Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                        43.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                             Nomination and Allocation of ARRs and MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                     34.0.0


          In addition, Market Participants are eligible to nominate CARRs up to one hundred

          percent (100%) of the reservation MW quantity for each annual or longer Firm Point-To-

          Point Transmission Service entitlement or aggregation thereof, less feasible LTTRs

          allocated in Stage 1A for Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service entitlement or

          aggregation thereof. Stage 1B includes eight (8) independent nominations: one (1) for

          each of four (4) seasons and two (2) time periods (peak and off-peak). Any Option B

          Grandfathered Agreements rolled over from Stage 1A shall automatically reduce the

          Stage 1B nomination limit for Network Integration Transmission Service and

          Grandfathered Agreements. The Transmission Provider will also nominate the MTPS

          ARR Entitlements in Stage 1B, as described in Section 47. The Transmission Provider

          shall perform an SFT for each season and time period for Stage 1B CARRs and

          Candidate MTPS ARRs. The Transmission Provider shall curtail CARRs and Candidate

          MTPS ARRs in each season and time period as required to achieve simultaneous

          feasibility. The feasible portions of LTTRs previously allocated in Stage 1A are fixed

          (not subject to Curtailment) in the Stage 1B process. Infeasible Stage 1A LTTRs remain

          LTTRs whether or not made feasible in Stage 1B. To the extent that infeasible LTTRs

          are not rendered feasible in Stage 1B, they shall remain infeasible LTTRs for the current

          Annual ARR Allocation period.




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                  43.2.4A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Stage 2 - ARR Allocation
MODULES                                                                                 31.0.0


                       In Stage 2 of the Annual ARR Allocation, the Transmission

                       Provider will inform each Market Participant of its Stage 2

                       allocation based on that Market Participant’s Stage 1 allocation

                       amounts and its Stage 1 nomination cap. The Transmission

                       Provider will further inform each Market Participant of its Stage 2

                       allocation as a percentage of the Stage 2 allocation of all applicable

                       Market Participants. Each Market Participant will then receive the

                       corresponding percentage share of the dollar value of the system

                       capability sold in the annual FTR Auction that was not otherwise

                       disbursed to holders of ARRs, or pursuant to provisions governing

                       MTPS ARRs, allocated in Stage 1. MTPS ARRs will not receive

                       Stage 2 allocations.

                       The Transmission Provider will determine the Stage 2 allocation

                       for each Market Participant after the completion of the Stage 1

                       allocation. The Stage 2 allocation will be calculated as described

                       below:

                                i. For each Season and Period of the annual FTR Auction,

                                   the Stage 2 allocation for each Market Participant will

                                   be calculated as the difference between the Stage 1

                                   nomination cap and the sum of ARRs allocated against

                                   Network Integration Transmission Service and Option

                                   A GFAs (including allocated infeasible ARRs in Stage




                                                             Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                               43.2.4A
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Stage 2 - ARR Allocation
MODULES                                                                              31.0.0


                              1) and Option B GFA entitlements. The Stage 1

                              nomination cap and the allocated ARRs will correspond

                              to the forecasted Network Integration Transmission

                              Service peak Load in each ARR Zone, plus Option A

                              and Option B Grandfathered Agreements.

                              This calculation will include any quantity of

                              Counterflow ARRs, and of the LTTR MWs whose

                              termination was requested but not granted.

                              ii.      Exception for Counterflow and HUFU ARRs:

                                       Counterflow and HUFU ARRs will not be

                                       included in the allocated Stage 1 ARRs when

                                       determining the MW amount to be allocated in

                                       Stage 2. (By definition, Counterflow and

                                       HUFU ARRs are assigned in a Market

                                       Participant’s year 1 Annual ARR Allocation).

                                       This exception for Counterflow and HUFU

                                       ARRs will apply to year 2 and ensuing Annual

                                       ARR Allocations for the LTTR MW quantity

                                       whose termination was requested but not

                                       granted.

                       iii.         The Stage 2 allocation will also be determined in a

                                    similar manner as described in (i) and (ii) above for




                                                          Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                43.2.4A
FERC Electric Tariff                                Stage 2 - ARR Allocation
MODULES                                                               31.0.0


                       the Point-To-Point Transmission Services

                       separately.




                                            Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                           43.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                           LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


          This Section describes: (1) the restoration of: (i) a Market Participant’s Stage 1A CARRs

   curtailed in its year 1 Annual ARR Allocation (“year 1 Stage 1A CARRs”); and (ii) the candidate

   LTTRs curtailed in a Market Participant’s year 2 and ensuing Annual ARR Allocations; (2)

   Counterflow ARR allocation; (3) HUFU ARR Entitlements and (4) the processing of a Market

   Participant’s LTTR termination requests in its year 2 and ensuing Annual ARR Allocations. The

   curtailed candidate LTTRs will be eligible for restoration to their current Annual ARR

   Allocation period’s MW quantity. The curtailed year 1 Stage 1A CARRs will be eligible for

   restoration to their CARR MW quantity. The Transmission Provider shall attempt such

   restoration based on any available Counterflow and HUFU ARR Entitlements, and in

   conjunction with its attempt to maximize, subject to simultaneous feasibility, the termination of

   the LTTRs for which LTTR termination requests were made during Stage 1A.

          The Transmission Provider will terminate only the LTTRs, and not the underlying RSPs

   and ARR Entitlements, pursuant to this Section. The termination of RSPs, HUFU RSPs and

   ARR Entitlements shall be handled differently under the limited circumstances described in

   Section 43.6.4. The Transmission Provider will perform the restoration and termination

   processes described in this Section after Stage 1A is concluded and before the Stage 1B

   nominations are accepted.

          a.      In restoring the curtailed candidate LTTRs and a Market Participant’s year 1

                  Stage 1A CARRs, the Transmission Provider will minimize an objective function

                  that is the weighted sum of two components:

                  i.     The first component of the objective function is the weighted sum of

                         squares of the megawatt amount of the curtailed candidate LTTRs and a




                                                                          Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                         43.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                         LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


                        Market Participant’s curtailed year 1 Stage 1A CARRs that the

                        Transmission Provider is unable to restore based on the inclusion of

                        Counterflow and HUFU ARR Entitlements and processing of LTTR

                        termination requests. The weights in the weighted sum of squares will be

                        equal to the inverse of the MW of curtailed candidate LTTR and curtailed

                        year 1 Stage 1A CARRs.

                 ii.    The second component of the objective function is the weighted sum of

                        squares of any LTTR megawatt amount whose termination was requested

                        but not granted, and the Counterflow and HUFU ARRs that the

                        Transmission Provider adds to restore curtailed candidate LTTRs and

                        curtailed year 1 Stage 1A CARRs. The weights in the weighted sum of

                        squares will be equal to the inverse of the MW of the corresponding LTTR

                        termination requests and Counterflow and HUFU ARR Entitlements.

          b.     Counterflow and HUFU ARRs shall be allocated and assigned directly to the

                 owner of the corresponding CARR(s). Counterflow and HUFU ARRs and any

                 LTTR megawatt quantity whose termination was requested but not granted shall

                 be subject to the same settlement terms and conditions as other allocated LTTRs.

          c.     Counterflow and HUFU ARRs and any LTTR megawatt quantity whose

                 termination was requested but not granted will not be considered toward the Stage

                 1B ARR nomination eligibility cap of the Market Participant.

          d.     During a Market Participants year 1 Annual ARR Allocation, the Transmission

                 Provider may assign Counterflow and HUFU ARRs to such Market Participant




                                                                        Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                          43.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                          LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 from any of its Counterflow and HUFU ARR Entitlements. In a Market

                 Participant’s year 2 and ensuing Annual ARR Allocation, the Market Participant

                 can request the termination of LTTRs pursuant to this Section.

          e.     A Market Participant’s LTTR whose termination was requested but not granted

                 shall nonetheless expire after such termination requests are made for ten (10)

                 consecutive allocation periods. The termination will take effect on the eleventh

                 (11th) allocation period after: (i) the year when that LTTR was first requested for

                 termination, or (ii) year 1 in the case of Counterflow and HUFU ARRs assigned

                 to a Market Participant. This 10-year timeline shall be reset if the megawatt

                 volume that remains un-terminated after the processing of an ensuing request is

                 greater than the megawatt volume that remained un-terminated after the

                 processing of the immediately preceding request. The MW quantity covered by a

                 request for termination of an LTTR during the 2009-10 Annual ARR Allocation

                 shall be deemed to constitute the un-nominated MW quantity of that LTTR (i.e.,

                 the difference between the 2008-09 LTTR MW and the 2009-10 Stage 1A CARR

                 corresponding to that LTTR). Requests for LTTR termination for the 2010-11

                 allocation and beyond should be made pursuant to the LTTR termination

                 procedure under this section.

          f.     HUFU ARR Entitlements cannot be nominated in the Stage 1A process in the

                 year 1 allocation pursuant to Section 43.2.4.a, but may be nominated in the Stage

                 1B process to the extent HUFU ARRs are not assigned in the restoration stage.

                 The MW quantity of the HUFU ARR Entitlements associated with the HUFU




                                                                         Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                          43.2.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                          LTTR Restoration and Termination Stage
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


                 RSPs eligible for nomination in Stage 1B, subject to the Stage 1B nomination cap,

                 will be the difference between the full qualified capacity of the HUFU ARR

                 Entitlements for the HUFU RSPs, less the MW of HUFU ARRs already assigned

                 in the restoration stage. HUFU ARR Entitlements will only be used for

                 counterflow assignment pursuant to this Section in year 1 of the Market

                 Participant’s Restoration Stage of the Annual ARR Allocation and shall not count

                 towards the Stage 1A nomination cap. If the Market Participant elected to add a

                 RSP that was deemed eligible for addition into the BRSS pursuant to the first or

                 second supplemental rules of Section 43.2.1(a) (v), that RSP will be ineligible as a

                 HUFU RSP. Once a HUFU ARR is terminated based on the Market Participant’s

                 request pursuant to Section 43.2.5 (e), the associated HUFU ARR Entitlement

                 will be an eligible PRSS entitlement in subsequent years for Stage 1B nomination

                 only up to its full qualified capacity. A Market Participant may utilize Section

                 43.6.1 to consider HUFU RSPs for potential eligibility for inclusion in the BRSS.

          g.     Candidate LTTRs are re-nominated into Stage 1A of the next Annual ARR

                 Allocation period, where they may be allocated either as LTTRs or as

                 Counterflow LTTRs.




                                                                         Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                       43.2.6
FERC Electric Tariff   Transitional Safeguards for ARR Allocation
MODULES                                                    31.0.0




                                      Effective On: July 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                              43.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Time Periods and Seasons for Existing Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        The annual allocation performed by the Transmission Provider considers

                 time period and season for entitlements (existing terms of Transmission Service

                 or terms under the Grandfathered Agreement for Market Participants that elected

                 Option A), irrespective of whether the existing entitlements vary by time period

                 or season.

                                a.     The annual allocation of ARRs shall be performed

                                       separately for On-Peak and Off-Peak periods in each of

                                       four (4) seasons prior to the start of each allocation period.

                                b.     The four (4) seasons are:

                                       i.      Winter: December, January, February

                                       ii.     Spring: March, April, May

                                       iii.    Summer: June, July, August

                                       iv.     Fall: September, October, November




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                            43.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                            43.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          43.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          43.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          43.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          43.5.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          43.5.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                          43.5.6
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                              43.6
FERC Electric Tariff                Annual Allocations
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   Replacement of Reserved Source Point or Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service:

                                 Megawatts from an existing Reserved Source Point may be

                       removed from the BRSS or PRSS to free up system capability for the

                       feasibility of ARRs from a replacement Reserved Source Point eligible to

                       be added to the BRSS or PRSS based on a Baseload Supply Resource or

                       non-Baseload Supply Resource, provided that a Baseload Supply

                       Resource that replaces a non-Baseload Reserved Source Point is only

                       eligible to be added to the non-BRSS part of the PRSS. The Market

                       Participant may also request to replace an existing BRSS RSP with a non-

                       Baseload Supply Resource in an ARR Zone in which the requesting

                       Market Participant’s total PRSS MW do not exceed 115% of the

                       requesting Market Participant’s Peak Usage, provided that no LTTRs have

                       been allocated to the existing BRSS RSP for the portion to be replaced.

                       Once allocated, the replacement RSP will be considered a non-BRSS RSP,

                       and the replaced Baseload Supply Resource can only be submitted for

                       subsequent re-inclusion in the BRSS pursuant to this section or section

                       43.6.2.

                                 The replacement RSP must meet the Resource Qualification

                       Requirements pursuant to Section 43.2.1.a with two exceptions: i) the

                       Capacity and Energy Contract can also be with another entity that has a

                       Capacity and Energy contract directly with the Generation Resource,

                       provided that both contracts have the same termination date; and ii) the




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                       Capacity and Energy ownership interest, or the Capacity and Energy

                       contract should remain in effect throughout the Seasons for which the

                       replacement RSP is requested in the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation

                       for the applicable ARR Zone. For the purposes of determining Resource

                       Qualification Requirements, the Reference Year shall be replaced by the

                       Annual ARR Allocation period subsequent to the year of the request for

                       the replacement RSP.

                              Megawatts from ARR Entitlements associated with an existing

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service may be removed from Stage

                       1A or Stage 1B to free up system capability for the feasibility of the

                       replacement Firm Point-To -Point Transmission Service with annual or

                       longer duration that commences after the applicable Reference Year and

                       will remain in effect throughout the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation.

                       The replacement Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service must be

                       active by virtue of rollover provisions or extant in the upcoming Annual

                       ARR Allocation period by the closing date provided by the Transmission

                       Provider prior to each Annual ARR Registration. The Market Participant

                       requesting to replace Stage 1A ARR Entitlements associated with an

                       existing Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service with the replacement

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service in Stage 1A must also meet the

                       following requirements: (a) the Market Participant must be an LSE serving

                       load with the portion of the replacement Firm Point-To-Point




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                       Transmission Service for which Stage 1A replacement is requested; (b) the

                       Market Participant must demonstrate the existence of a firm network

                       contract with the transmission provider for the network load; (c) the

                       duration of the Market Participant’s entitlement to service under the

                       network contract (source and sink) by virtue of rollover rights or extant, in

                       the upcoming Annual Allocation Period by the closing date provided by

                       the Transmission Provider prior to each Annual ARR Registration, must

                       be equal to or greater than that of the eligible Firm Point-To-Point

                       Transmission Service; (d) the Point of Receipt of the replacement Firm

                       Point-to-Point Transmission Service must correspond to a Local Balancing

                       Authority Area, and the Point of Delivery must correspond to the Local

                       Balancing Authority or external Balancing Authority Area for the load

                       identified in the network contract; (e) the Market Participant must

                       demonstrate a Capacity and Energy interest through a contract or

                       ownership of the Resource corresponding to the source of the replacement

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service and (f) the Resource or the

                       replacement Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service must meet the

                       Baseload Supply Resource qualification requirements pursuant to Section

                       43.2.4.a.i.(b). The remainder of the replacement Firm Point-To-Point

                       Transmission Service MW that did not pass the SFT shall be entitled to

                       Stage 2 ARR compensation pursuant to Section 43.2.4A. The rollover




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                       provisions described in Section 43.2.1.a will also apply to the replacement

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service.

                              The total MW subscription of the Generator associated with the

                       replacement RSP and Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service request,

                       taking into consideration all existing ARR Entitlements and all other

                       replacement requests, as well as all addition requests pursuant to Section

                       43.6.2, cannot exceed the rated Capacity of the corresponding Generator.

                              An SFT will be conducted to add the replacement Baseload Supply

                       Resource and Stage 1A eligible Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       into Stage 1A up to the quantity determined to be feasible using the

                       Restoration and Termination Stage of the most recent Annual ARR

                       Allocation without the infeasible ARRs. Similarly, an SFT will be

                       conducted to add the replacement non-Baseload Supply Resource and

                       non-Stage 1A eligible Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service into

                       Stage 1B up to the quantity determined to be feasible using Stage 1B of

                       the most recent Annual ARR Allocation without the infeasible ARRs.

                       These SFTs will be conducted on a market-wide, non-ARR Zone basis.

                              The SFT shall maximize the allocation sought by the replacement

                       request, and the replacement of the existing ARR Entitlements. Market

                       Participants shall submit the requests with the order in which those

                       requests will need to be studied. The SFT determines the MW quantity of

                       the replacement RSP for which ARR Entitlements can be defined, and the




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                    Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                       MW quantity of the existing RSP that can be terminated. The SFT can

                       result in ARR Entitlements for a MW quantity of the replacement RSP

                       that is less than, equal to, or greater than the terminated MW quantity of

                       the existing RSP. The requesting Market Participant must submit the

                       Minimum Acceptance Ratio for the replacement request. If the ratio of the

                       replacement ARR Entitlements to existing ARR Entitlements being

                       replaced is less than the Minimum Acceptance Ratio, determined by the

                       SFT, the Transmission Provider will deny the replacement request. The

                       ensuing SFT results shall be binding, without any need for acceptance by

                       the requesting Market Participants. The SFT will be performed

                       sequentially, and the outcome of the replacement request will be fixed for

                       the following addition and replacement requests. The study will be

                       performed for the Stage 1A requests first and then for the Stage 1B

                       requests, on a first-come, first request basis. The ARR Entitlements that

                       the SFT determines to be feasible will set the ARR Entitlement MW for

                       all future allocation periods. In each subsequent allocation period, the

                       Market Participant will be able to request ARRs and/or LTTRs from the

                       resulting ARR Entitlements.

                               The replacement RSP can either be an existing or new Generation

                       Resource. If the request to designate a replacement RSP involves a new

                       Generation Resource, then after it passes the SFT, the designation shall be

                       effective in the next allocation year, for the first full Season at the start of




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                     Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                         which the new Generation Resource is commercially operational.

                         Otherwise, if the new Generation Resource is not commercially

                         operational by that time, the designated RSP and/or associated ARRs will

                         be removed.

                         A Market Participant may increase the feasibility of ARRs from a new

                         Baseload Supply Resource or replacement Firm Point-To-Point

                         Transmission Service by utilizing the Feasibility Upgrade Process. In

                         such case, the Market Participant will be eligible to receive LTTRs

                         pursuant to Section 46. If the ARR Receipt Point and ARR Delivery Point

                         of such ARRs and LTTRs match exactly with an associated Firm Point-

                         To-Point Transmission Service that was approved based on construction

                         of the new transmission capacity, then the remainder of the Firm Point-To-

                         Point Transmission Service MW that did not pass the SFT for LTTRs shall

                         be entitled to Stage 1B ARR Entitlements subject to a further SFT and,

                         subsequently, the remainder that did not pass the SFT for Stage 1B

                         Entitlements shall be entitled to Stage 2 ARRs .

   A replacement Baseload Supply Resource or Stage 1A eligible Firm Point-To-Point

   Transmission Service that would otherwise have qualified for inclusion in Stage 1A but fails the

   SFT for such inclusion may, at the requesting Market Participant's option, be automatically

   included in Stage 1B without having to undergo or pass any further SFT, but only for the

   upcoming Annual ARR Allocation.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        43.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff   Replacement of Reserved Source Firm Point or Point-To-Point
MODULES                                                                     30.0.0




                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        43.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                  Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Point-To-Point S
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


   Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service:



                              New Network Resources may, upon request, be added to the BRSS

                       or PRSS, in the amount that the SFT determines to be feasible, to the

                       extent that the total MW capacity of the requesting Market Participant’s

                       portion of the existing BRSS or PRSS in a given ARR Zone is less than

                       115% of the Baseload Usage or Peak Usage, respectively, of the

                       requesting Market Participant in the given ARR Zone.

                              Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service with annual or longer

                       duration that commences after the Reference Year is eligible to be

                       requested as an addition to Stage 1A or Stage 1B in the upcoming Annual

                       ARR Allocation for the amount that is determined to be feasible by the

                       SFT. The eligible Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service must be

                       active by virtue of rollover provisions or extant in the upcoming Annual

                       ARR Allocation period by the closing date provided by the Transmission

                       Provider prior to each Annual ARR Registration. The Market Participant

                       requesting to add the eligible Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       into Stage 1A must also meet the following requirements: (a) the Market

                       Participant must be an LSE serving load with the portion of the eligible

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service for which Stage 1A entitlement

                       is requested, (b) the Market Participant must demonstrate the existence of

                       a firm network contract with the transmission provider for the network




                                                                    Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                                        43.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                  Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Point-To-Point S
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


                       load; (c) the duration of the Market Participant’s entitlement to service

                       under the network contract (source and sink) by virtue of rollover rights or

                       extant, in the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation period by the closing date

                       provided by the Transmission Provider prior to each Annual ARR

                       Registration, must be equal to or greater than that of the eligible Firm

                       Point-To-Point Transmission Service; (d) the Point of Receipt of the

                       eligible Firm Point-to-Point Transmission Service must correspond to a

                       Local Balancing Authority Area, and the Point of Delivery must

                       correspond to the Local Balancing Authority Area or external Balancing

                       Authority Area for the load identified in the network contract; (e) the

                       Market Participant must demonstrate a Capacity and Energy interest

                       through a contract or ownership of the Resource corresponding to the

                       source of the eligible Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service; and (f)

                       the Resource or the Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service must meet

                       the Baseload Supply Resource qualification requirements pursuant to

                       Section 43.2.4.a.i.(b). The remainder of the Firm Point-To -Point

                       Transmission Service MW that did not pass the SFT shall be entitled to

                       Stage 2 ARR compensation pursuant to Section 43.2.4A. The rollover

                       provisions described in Section 43.2.1.a will also apply to these Firm

                       Point-To-Point Transmission Services.

                              The designation of a new RSP must meet the Resource

                       Qualification Requirements pursuant to Section 43.2.1.a with two




                                                                     Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                                        43.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                  Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Point-To-Point S
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


                       exceptions: i) the Capacity and Energy Contract can also be with another

                       entity that has a Capacity and Energy contract directly with the Generation

                       Resource, provided that both contracts have the same termination date;

                       and ii) the Capacity and Energy ownership interest in, or the Capacity and

                       Energy contract should remain in effect throughout the Seasons for which

                       the replacement RSP is requested in the upcoming Annual ARR

                       Allocation for the applicable ARR Zone. For purposes of determining

                       Resource Qualification Requirements, the Reference Year shall be

                       replaced by the Annual ARR Allocation period subsequent to the year of

                       the request to add a new RSP.

                              The total MW subscription of the Generator associated with the

                       new RSP or Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service request, taking

                       into consideration all existing ARR Entitlements and all other addition

                       requests, as well as replacement requests pursuant to Section 43.6.1,

                       cannot exceed the rated Capacity of the corresponding Generator.

                              An SFT will be conducted to add the new Baseload Supply

                       Resource and Stage 1A eligible Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service

                       into Stage 1A up to the quantity determined to be feasible using the

                       Restoration and Termination Stage of the most recent Annual ARR

                       Allocation without the infeasible ARRs. Similarly, an SFT will be

                       conducted to add a new non-Baseload Supply Resource and non-Stage 1A

                       eligible Firm Point-To -Point Transmission Service into Stage 1B up to




                                                                    Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                                         43.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                   Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Point-To-Point S
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


                       the quantity determined to be feasible using Stage 1B of the most recent

                       Annual ARR Allocation without the infeasible ARRs. The SFTs will be

                       conducted on a market-wide, non-ARR Zone basis.

                               Market Participants shall submit requests with the order in which

                       those requests will need to be studied. The ensuing SFT results shall be

                       binding, without any need for acceptance by the requesting Market

                       Participants.

                               The SFT will be performed sequentially and the outcome of the

                       additions will be fixed for the following addition requests. The study will

                       be performed on a first-come, first request basis, for the Stage 1A requests

                       first and then for the Stage 1B requests. The outcome of the SFT will set

                       the ARR Entitlement MW for all future allocation periods. Each

                       following allocation period, the Market Participant will then be able to

                       request ARRs and/or LTTRs from the resulting ARR Entitlements.

                               The newly designated RSP can either be an existing or new

                       Generation Resource. If the request for RSP designation involves a new

                       Generation Resource, then after it passes the SFT, the designation shall be

                       effective in the next allocation year, for the first full Season at the start of

                       which the new Generation Resource is commercially operational.

                       Otherwise, if the new Generation Resource is not commercially

                       operational by that time, the newly designated RSP and/or associated

                       ARRs will be removed.




                                                                       Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                                        43.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                  Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Point-To-Point S
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


                              A Market Participant may increase the feasibility of ARRs from a

                       new Baseload Supply Resource or a new Firm Point-To-Point

                       Transmission Service by utilizing the Feasibility Upgrade Process. In

                       such case, the Market Participant will be eligible to receive FTRs and

                       LTTRs pursuant to Section 46. If the ARR Receipt Point and ARR

                       Delivery Point of such FTRs and LTTRs match exactly with an associated

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service that was approved based on

                       construction of the new transmission capacity, then the remainder of the

                       Firm Point-To-Point Transmission Service MW that did not pass the SFT

                       for LTTRs shall be entitled to Stage 1B ARR Entitlements subject to a

                       further SFT and, subsequently, the remainder that did not pass the SFT for

                       Stage 1B ARR Entitlements shall be entitled to Stage 2 ARRs.

                              A Baseload Supply Resource or Stage 1A eligible Firm Point-To-

                       Point Transmission Service that would otherwise have qualified for

                       inclusion as an addition in Stage 1A but fails the SFT for such inclusion

                       may, at the requesting Market Participant's option, be automatically

                       included in Stage 1B without having to undergo or pass any further SFT,

                       but only for the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation.

                              A Market Participant may request that an existing RSP that is in

                       the PRSS but not in the BRSS be included in the BRSS if the RSP meets

                       all the qualifications for inclusion in the BRSS and passes the SFT for

                       such inclusion. In assessing such a request, the Transmission Provider




                                                                    Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                                        43.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                  Designation of New Reserved Source Point or Point-To-Point S
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


                       shall reevaluate the baseload status of an RSP that it has previously

                       determined to have that status. A Market Participant may not request that

                       an RSP be removed from an ARR Zone and then later request that such

                       RSP be re-included in the same ARR Zone, within the same year.




                                                                    Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                                          43.6.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Expiration of Point-To-Point Service Contracts
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              For Point-To-Point Transmission Service Agreements, any

                       allocated ARRs terminate when such service agreement expires. Point-

                       To-Point Transmission Service with annual service or longer that

                       terminates during the allocation period is included in the annual allocation.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         43.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                  Retirement of Generation Resources and Expiration of Long-Te
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   Retirement of Generation Resources and Expiration of Long-Term Power Purchase

   Agreement:



                              Market Participants can request the termination of an RSP that has

                       associated year 1 Counterflow ARRs, and corresponds to a retiring (or

                       retired) Generation Resource or an expiring (or expired) long-term power

                       purchase agreement by submitting a termination request to the

                       Transmission Provider at least 5 years before the expected retirement or

                       expiration, provided that a shorter notice period shall be allowed under the

                       circumstances set forth in sections 43.6.4.1 and 43.6.4.2 hereof. The

                       Transmission Provider will review and verify the contract termination or

                       resource retirement and, upon confirmation, will completely terminate the

                       RSP, including any associated ARR Entitlements and LTTRs, from the

                       corresponding ARR Zone, either immediately if the retirement or

                       expiration has already occurred, or in the next full Season following the

                       actual occurrence of such retirement or expiration.

                              The Market Participant requesting the termination of the RSP shall

                       be the same Market Participant whose ownership or contractual

                       relationship with the Generation Resource was the basis for the original

                       inclusion of the RSP in the PRSS. If the retirement of the Generation

                       Resource or the expiry of the long-term power purchase agreement occurs

                       during an Annual ARR Allocation period, the corresponding FTRs




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        43.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                 Retirement of Generation Resources and Expiration of Long-Te
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                       acquired through self-scheduling shall remain in effect through the end of

                       the current Annual ARR Allocation period.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                               43.6.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                      2010 Annual ARR Allocation Period
MODULES                                                                              30.0.0


                              A Market Participant may request the termination of an

                       RSP that has associated year 1 Counterflow ARRs and that is tied

                       to a Generation Resource that is retiring or has retired, or a long-

                       term power purchase agreement that is expiring or has expired,

                       prior to or during the 2010 Annual ARR Allocation period, and

                       such termination shall be effective in the next full Season

                       following such retirement or expiration.




                                                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                  43.6.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff              Termination of RSP During 2011-2015 Annual ARR Alloc. Period
MODULES                                                                                 30.0.0


                              A Market Participant may request the termination of an RSP that

                       has associated year 1 Counterflow ARRs, allocated during the 2008-09

                       Annual ARR Allocation, and that is tied to a Generation Resource that is

                       retiring or has retired, or a long-term power purchase agreement that is

                       expiring or has expired, during any of the Annual ARR Allocation periods

                       from 2011 through 2015, and such termination shall be effective in the

                       next full Season following such retirement or expiration.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      43.6.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                  Termination of RSP Associated with Counterflow ARRs Allocate
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


   43.6.4.3 Termination of RSP Associated with Counterflow ARRs Allocated in 2009 and

   Future Annual ARR Allocated Periods.




   A Market Participant may request the termination of an RSP that has associated year 1

   Counterflow ARRs allocated during 2009 or future Annual ARR Allocation periods, or a HUFU

   RSP and its associated HUFU ARRs, and that is tied to a Generation Resource that is retiring or

   has retired, or a long-term power purchase agreement that is expiring or has expired. The

   Market Participant must submit a 5 year termination notice to the Transmission Provider. The

   termination of the RSP, including any associated ARR Entitlements and LTTRs, shall be

   effective in the next full Season following such generator retirement or PPA expiration. The 5

   year notice may be waived and the RSP, or the HUFU RSP (including any associated HUFU

   ARRs) terminated immediately if the Generation Resource was rendered inoperable immediately

   and permanently due to a catastrophic failure of the Generation Resource.

   A Market Participant may request the termination of an RSP, including a HUFU RSP and

   associated HUFU ARRs, tied to a Generation Resource that is retiring or retired, or a long-term

   power purchase agreement that is expiring or expired, and has no associated LTTRs in the

   current Annual ARR Allocation period, and such termination shall be effective in the next full

   Season following such retirement or expiration.

   In the absence of timely termination notices from a Market Participant, the RSP or HUFU RSP

   (including any associated HUFU ARRs) associated with the retiring or retired Generation




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     43.6.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                 Termination of RSP Associated with Counterflow ARRs Allocate
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


   Resource or expiring or expired long-term power purchase agreement will be retained in the

   subsequent Annual ARR Allocation periods.

   The Transmission Provider shall provide in the appropriate Business Practices Manuals, the

   timeline and details of the procedure for requesting the termination of RSPs, including HUFU

   RSPs, HUFU ARRs, ARR Entitlements and LTTRs, associated with a retiring or retired

   Generation Resource or an expiring or expired long-term power purchase agreement.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           43.6.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         Renewal.
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              ARRs may be awarded for the remainder of the current Annual

                       ARR Allocation Period for the Point-To-Point transmission rights

                       pursuant to the rollover requirements described in Section 43.2.1.a of this

                       Tariff. The ARRs will be terminated if the renewal request is not

                       confirmed by the Transmission Customer. The same renewal request will

                       not be granted FTRs separately through the OASIS request for FTRs.

                       Market Participants may convert the ARRs into FTRs by self-scheduling

                       into Annual FTR Auction.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          43.6.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Load Growth
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                               Market Participants shall be provided the opportunity to nominate

                       additional CARRs in Stage 1A and Stage 1B to reflect incremental Load

                       growth. Load growth shall be reflected in the Peak Usage. All available

                       information will be used to determine the Peak Usage if less than three

                       years of data is available.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                    43.7
FERC Electric Tariff   General Provisions for ARRs and FTRs
MODULES                                               30.0.0




                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        43.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        External Flowgate Data
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall consider the impact of ARRs and

                       FTRs on external flowgates located outside the Transmission Provider

                       Region. The Transmission Provider shall address such impacts consistent

                       with any executed seams agreements with such parties.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      43.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                         ARR Revenue Re-Assignment to Reflect Load Switching
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


                              ARR Entitlements will be reassigned at the registration process for

                       an Annual ARR Allocation period, and ARR revenue will be re-assigned

                       during an Annual ARR Allocation period, to reflect Load switching under

                       state retail choice programs, such other state auction programs or other

                       transactions under which Load switches between suppliers. On an annual

                       basis, each Market Participant’s nomination eligibility will be based on its

                       Peak Usage within an ARR Zone for the upcoming Annual ARR

                       Allocation period and will reflect Load switching between Annual ARR

                       Allocation periods.

                              During an Annual ARR Allocation period, ARR revenue re-

                       distributed pursuant to Load shifts will entitle the Market Participants

                       gaining the Load to the revenue based on clearing prices from the annual

                       FTR Auctions, based on the source, sink and MW value of the ARRs of

                       the Market Participant losing the Load. Before making such a

                       reallocation, the Transmission Provider shall verify the reported Load to

                       have shifted between the Market Participants. The Market Participant

                       losing the Load and the Market Participant gaining the Load must agree on

                       and provide the Transmission Provider with due notice and adequate

                       evidence, in the required format and in a timely manner, of the results of

                       the state retail choice programs, other state auction programs or other

                       transactions that caused Load shifting, as a condition for the Transmission

                       Provider’s reallocation of ARR revenue based on such Load shift. On a




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       43.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                          ARR Revenue Re-Assignment to Reflect Load Switching
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                       monthly basis, the Transmission Provider will then reassign ARR revenue

                       based on Load reported to have shifted between Market Participants for

                       the prior month, which reassignment will be either a net credit or a net

                       charge.

                                 Where there are multiple Market Participants serving or served

                       Load under Network Integration Transmission Service in an ARR Zone,

                       they should designate a single entity to report all Load shifts on their

                       behalf in the required format and in a timely manner. The Transmission

                       Provider shall be entitled to rely on the accuracy and completeness of a

                       designated entity's report. If a report is submitted by an entity that has

                       been designated by some but not all Market Participants seeking the

                       revenue reassignment, the Load shift data for the covered month shall be

                       deemed incomplete and shall not be used as a basis for reassigning ARR

                       revenues. In the absence of an accurate report on Load shifts for the prior

                       month, the Transmission Provider shall use data from the last accurate

                       report on Load shifts, if any, i.e., no Load will be deemed to have shifted

                       in the ARR Zone since the last accurate report.

                                 Market Participants within an ARR Zone that lose Load will

                       receive an obligation to fund ARRs equal to a pro rata share of all their

                       ARRs for Network Integration Transmission Service in the Annual ARR

                       Allocation. Market Participants that acquire Load will receive a pro rata

                       share of Load gained during the month multiplied by the total ARR




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                     43.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                        ARR Revenue Re-Assignment to Reflect Load Switching
MODULES                                                                                  30.0.0


                       funding obligations allocated to Market Participants that lost Load during

                       the month.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          43.7.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       New Transmission Customers that Join after July 15, 2004.
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall not guarantee that new

                       Transmission Customers are entitled to the same level of FTRs as existing

                       Transmission Customers. Where a Market Participant has provided FTR

                       data to the Transmission Provider by July 14, 2004, and has submitted an

                       unconditional application to become a Market Participant prior to July 14,

                       2004, the Transmission Provider shall include such entities in the initial

                       FTR allocations. The Transmission Provider shall make best efforts to

                       have all Market Participants receive all eligible FTRs that might be

                       available.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            43.7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                      Effect of a Transmission Owner or Market Participant Withdra
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   Effect of a Transmission Owner or Market Participants Withdrawal on LTTRs:

   The Transmission Provider shall calculate the impact of the withdrawal of a Market Participant

   or the Transmission Owner on the feasibility of the existing LTTRs of the LTTR holders that

   will remain after the withdrawal, consistent with the procedures set forth in the Business

   Practices Manual for FTRs and ARRs. The impact study calculation shall be concluded within

   three months before the scheduled withdrawal date. The calculation shall use a reference case

   reflecting the feasibility of all existing LTTRs prior to the withdrawal; and a study case

   indicating whether and to what extent such feasibility would be affected by the withdrawal. The

   reference case shall consist of the Stage 1A and restoration steps of the last complete Annual

   ARR Allocation (if the withdrawal date falls at the end of the current ARR allocation period), or

   the last four consecutive seasonal allocations (if the withdrawal date falls before the end of the

   current ARR allocation period), in which the withdrawing Market Participants, including those in

   the ARR Zone of a withdrawing Transmission Owner, participated fully preceding the

   withdrawal.




                                                                            Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                            43.7.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Modeling of LTTR Impacts
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   In the case of a withdrawing Transmission Owner, the calculation shall include modeling

   revisions that:

          (1)        Remove: (a) LTTRs that source and sink in the withdrawing Transmission

                     Owner’s ARR Zone(s); (b) LTTRs that source in the withdrawing Transmission

                     Owner’s ARR Zone(s), sink outside the Transmission Provider Region and are

                     not eligible for point-to-point conversion; and (c) LTTRs of all Market

                     Participants that only hold LTTRs as customers of the withdrawing Transmission

                     Owner, and that will not remain Market Participants under any other

                     arrangements after such withdrawal;

          (2)        Convert to point-to-point LTTRs any LTTRs that source in the Transmission

                     Provider Region or adjacent Balancing Authority Area and sink in the

                     withdrawing Transmission Owner’s ARR Zone, and update the sinks of such

                     LTTRs to appropriate interfaces;

          (3)        Update to appropriate interfaces the sources of LTTRs that sink in the

                     Transmission Provider Region and are sourced in the withdrawing Transmission

                     Owner’s ARR Zone(s); and

          (4)        Update loopflows to reflect the removal of the withdrawing Transmission Owner,

                     which involves but is not limited to, updating the Reciprocal Coordinated

                     Flowgates (RCFs) and Firm Flow Entitlements (FFEs) to reflect the impacts

                     related to the Transmission Owner’s withdrawal.

   As applicable, the steps described above shall be used in the case of any Market Participant(s)

   withdrawing for reasons other than the withdrawal of its host Transmission Owner.




                                                                                Effective On: May 7, 2014
MISO                                                                                      43.7.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Types of LTTR Impacts
MODULES                                                                                     31.0.0


   The calculation shall determine to what extent the withdrawal shall:

          (1)     Render existing LTTRs infeasible; and

          (2)     Render existing infeasible LTTRs feasible.




                                                                          Effective On: May 7, 2014
MISO                                                                                       43.7.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                  LTTR Impact of Multi Withdrawals in Same or Proxi Time Frame
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


   Where two or more Transmission Owners are scheduled to withdraw on the same date, or on

   withdrawal dates that otherwise warrant the use of the same reference case, the impact of each

   withdrawal shall be calculated independently of the other withdrawal(s). The cumulative impact

   of the withdrawals shall be determined through the discount factor described in section 43.7.4.5.




                                                                             Effective On: May 7, 2014
MISO                                                                                            43.7.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Valuation of Adverse LTTR Impacts
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


          Where the withdrawal of a Transmission Owner, causing the withdrawal of Market

   Participants in its ARR Zone(s), or the withdrawal of a Market Participant for reasons other than

   the withdrawal of its host Transmission Owner, is calculated to have an overall negative net

   impact on (i.e., increases) the infeasibility uplift of existing LTTRs of the LTTR holders that will

   remain after the withdrawal, the withdrawing Transmission Owner, or the Market Participant(s)

   withdrawing for reasons other than the withdrawal of its host Transmission Owner, will be

   assessed the costs as described in section 43.7.4.5.

          The seasonal (peak/ off-peak) incremental infeasibility and feasibility of LTTRs due to

   the impacts of the withdrawal will be priced based on the corresponding seasonal (peak/ off-

   peak) average of the last three annual auction clearing prices for the relevant paths. When a

   particular path is not available for all of the last three ARR annual allocation periods, the prices

   will be determined based on the most recent historical prices available, or those on the

   electrically equivalent paths.

          Where the withdrawal of a Transmission Owner, causing the withdrawal of Market

   Participants in its ARR Zone(s), is calculated to have an overall positive net impact on (i.e.,

   decreases) the infeasibility uplift of existing LTTRs of the LTTR holders that will remain after

   the withdrawal, the value of such positive net impact shall not be credited to the withdrawing

   Transmission Owner and the Market Participants in its ARR Zone(s).

          Where the withdrawal of a Market Participant(s) for reasons other than the withdrawal of

   its host Transmission Owner, is calculated to have an overall positive net impact on the

   infeasibility uplift of existing LTTRs of the LTTR holders that will remain after the withdrawal,




                                                                            Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                          43.7.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Valuation of Adverse LTTR Impacts
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   the value of such positive net impact shall not be credited to the Market Participants in that ARR

   Zone(s).




                                                                          Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                            43.7.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                             Recovery of Cost of Adverse LTTR Impacts and Their Calc.
MODULES                                                                                            34.0.0


           The total value of the annual net impact of the withdrawal of a Market Participant(s) or

   Transmission Owner(s) on the infeasibility uplift of the LTTRs of LTTR holders that will remain

   after the withdrawal shall constitute an annual gross charge to be imposed on the withdrawing

   Market Participant, if withdrawing for reasons other than the withdrawal of its host Transmission

   Owner; or on a withdrawing Transmission Owner, as part of its exit fee, up to ten years after the

   withdrawal. This annual gross charge will be adjusted for the following, as applicable, prior to

   applying the discount factor, to derive the net annual charge:

               1) Credit for the withdrawing entity’s1 LTTRs that are scheduled to be terminated

                    during the 10-year period based on previous and properly renewed LTTR

                    termination requests.

               2) Credit or charge accounting for the withdrawing entity’s removal of infeasible

                    LTTRs.

               3) Credit or charge for the cessation of the withdrawing entity’s contribution to the

                    uplift of the cost of infeasible LTTRs after its withdrawal.

           The net annual charge shall be reduced by a discount factor in each year where the

   overall LTTR infeasibility of the Transmission System is less than the infeasibility determined in

   the study case. There shall be no discount factor in years when the overall LTTR infeasibility of

   the Transmission System increases relative to the level of infeasibility determined in the study

   case. After each of and up to ten Annual ARR Allocations following the Market Participant(s)’

   or Transmission Owner’s withdrawal, the Transmission Provider shall calculate the discount

   factor by dividing the percentage of infeasible LTTRs relative to all LTTRs in the particular


   1
    The phrase “withdrawing entity” refers to Market Participants within the withdrawing Transmission Owner’s LBA
   Area or Market Participants withdrawing for reasons other than the withdrawal of any Transmission Owner.



                                                                                   Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                        43.7.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Recovery of Cost of Adverse LTTR Impacts and Their Calc.
MODULES                                                                                        34.0.0


   Annual ARR Allocation by the percentage of the infeasible LTTRs relative to all LTTRs in the

   study case.

          The cost of calculating such LTTR impacts shall also be charged to the withdrawing

   Market Participant(s) or Transmission Owner (in the latter case, as part of its exit fee).




                                                                            Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                          43.7.4.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Distribution of Cost of Adverse LTTR Impacts
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   Upon receipt of the withdrawing or withdrawn Market Participants’ or Transmission Owner’s

   annual payment described in section 43.7.4.5, the Transmission Provider shall correspondingly

   reduce the uplift of the cost of infeasible LTTRs to all LTTR holders remaining after each such

   payment.




                                                                         Effective On: August 11, 2019
MISO                                                                                            43.7.4.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Preliminary Estimates of the LTTR Impacts
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   Upon providing a notice of withdrawal, the withdrawing Market Participant or withdrawing

   Transmission Owner may request a preliminary estimate of the LTTR impacts of its withdrawal.

   The estimate shall not be binding and will not serve as a substitute for the required impact study

   set forth in section 43.7.4 of this Tariff. All costs of such a preliminary estimate shall be charged

   to the withdrawing Market Participant or withdrawing Transmission Owner.




                                                                                Effective On: May 7, 2014
MISO                                                                                                44
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Annual FTR Auctions
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                 The Transmission Provider shall conduct FTR Auctions on an annual basis: (i) to

          allow the Market Participant to convert their feasible ARRs allocated in the most recent

          Annual ARR Allocation into FTRs by self-scheduling them; and (ii) to allow Market

          Participants to buy other FTRs through a competitive bidding process. The Transmission

          Provider shall conduct FTR Auctions in a manner consistent with this Tariff and the

          standards and procedures set forth in the Business Practices Manuals. The annual auction

          shall consist of eight (8) independent auctions for the peak and off-peak periods for four

          (4) seasons.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           44.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Nature and Timing of Annual FTR Auctions
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


                        Transmission Provider shall offer for sale at the annual FTR Auctions the

                 entire expected transfer capability of the Transmission Provider Region in three

                 (3) rounds for each of the four (4) seasons in any upcoming annual auction. The

                 transfer capability will be reduced by a proportion appropriate for each of the

                 ARRs that were self-scheduled by the existing ARR Holders. The transfer

                 capability is further reduced to account for the loopflow assumptions.

                                a.      All FTRs acquired through the annual FTR Auctions shall

                                        have a term of one (1) Season as defined in Section 43.3.

                                b.      The self-scheduling of FTRs and all bids to purchase FTRs

                                        must be submitted to the Transmission Provider during the

                                        annual bidding period, pursuant to the requirements

                                        contained in the Business Practices Manual.

                                c.      The Transmission Provider shall post the results of the

                                        annual FTR Auction on the internet webpage. The posted

                                        results shall consist of: (i) FTR Receipt Point; (ii) FTR

                                        Delivery Point; (iii) FTR quantity; (iv) whether the right is

                                        an Obligation or an Option; (v) FTR Period (peak/off-

                                        peak); (vi) FTR term; (vii) whether the right is a Buy or

                                        Sell; (viii) name of the FTR Bidder/FTR Offeror; (ix) the

                                        round of the FTR Auction where each FTR was awarded;

                                        and (x) FTR Market Clearing Price for each FTR awarded

                                        in the annual FTR Auction.




                                                                           Effective On: March 15, 2016
MISO                                                                      44.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Provider Responsibilities Prior to Auction
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0




                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         44.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Establish Auction Rules
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall develop and use auction rules and

                       procedures as specified in this Section 44.2 and implement them through

                       procedures consistent with the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           44.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Evaluate Creditworthiness
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall ensure that each party submitting

                       an FTR Bid is a Market Participant qualified to submit such a bid

                       consistent with the creditworthiness provisions maintained by the

                       Transmission Provider. As a result of this evaluation of creditworthiness,

                       the Transmission Provider shall establish a limit before the auction on the

                       value of the FTRs that the Market Participant may be awarded in the

                       auction. Market Participants will not be permitted to submit FTR Bids

                       that exceed this permissible amount.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        44.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                               Information Made Available prior to FTR Auction
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                              To aid Market Participants’ participation in the auction, the

                       Transmission Provider will make available data to be used in the

                       optimization model pursuant to the Business Practices Manual.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           44.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Other Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider will establish an auditable information

                       system to facilitate analysis and acceptance or rejection of FTR Bids, to

                       provide a record of all FTR Bids and self-scheduled FTRs, and to provide

                       all necessary assistance in the resolution of disputes that arise from

                       questions regarding the acceptance, rejection, awarding and recording of

                       FTR Bids and self-scheduled FTRs. The Transmission Provider will

                       establish a system to communicate auction-related information to all

                       auction participants. The Transmission Provider will receive FTR Bids

                       and self-scheduled FTRs from any entity that meets the eligibility criteria

                       established in this Tariff and will implement the auction bidding rules

                       previously established by the Transmission Provider. The Transmission

                       Provider will determine the set of Winning FTR Bids for each auction (as

                       per Section 44.5.1) and calculate the FTR Market Clearing Price of all

                       FTRs at the conclusion of the auction.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                         44.3
FERC Electric Tariff   Responsibilities of Market Participant Submitting FTR Bids
MODULES                                                                    30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           44.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Creditworthiness
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              The aggregate value of the FTR Bids submitted by any Market

                       Participant submitting FTR Bids (FTR Bidder) into the FTR Auction shall

                       not exceed the portion of that Market Participant’s Total Credit Limit

                       allocated to the FTR Auction, as provided in the Credit Policy. Each FTR

                       Bidder must pay the FTR Market Clearing Price for each FTR it is

                       awarded in the auction, as calculated pursuant to Section 44.5.2.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                 44.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               FTR Bids
MODULES                                                                              30.0.0


                       a.   Each FTR Bidder shall include the following information in

                            its FTR Bid:

                            i.     The FTR bid will be an obligation type;

                            ii.    FTR Receipt Point, FTR Delivery Point, as

                                   applicable, provided, that, the FTR cannot be

                                   defined as having an FTR Receipt Point and an FTR

                                   Delivery Point within the same Bus;

                            iii.   The maximum MW desired;

                            iv.    The maximum acceptable price, in $/MW;

                            v.     Whether for On-Peak or Off-Peak; and

                            vi.    Season.

                       b.   An FTR Bid for a specified MW quantity of FTRs shall

                            constitute an FTR Bid to purchase a quantity of FTRs equal

                            to or less than the specified quantity. An FTR Bid may not

                            specify a minimum quantity of MW that the FTR Bidder

                            wishes to purchase.

                       c.   All FTR Bids and the actions of FTR Bidders shall be

                            subject to the provisions of Module D.

                       d.   An FTR Bid that defines the FTR source and sink within

                            the same Bus in the FTR Auction model will be rejected.




                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                           44.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                         FTR Bids
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                   44.4
FERC Electric Tariff   Responsibilities of Each FTR Offeror
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                  44.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              FTR Offers
MODULES                                                                               30.0.0


                       a.   Each FTR Holder desiring to sell an FTR following the

                            annual FTR Auction shall include the following

                            information in its FTR Offer:

                            i.     The FTR Offer will be an obligation type;

                            ii.    FTR Receipt Point or FTR Delivery Point, as

                                   applicable;

                            iii.   The MW quantity of the FTR offered, which cannot

                                   exceed the quantity of the FTR MW from which it

                                   is being offered;

                            iv.    The minimum acceptable price, if any (reserve

                                   price), in $/MW; and

                            v.     Whether for On-Peak or Off-Peak.

                       b.   Each FTR Holder that Offers FTRs for sale must provide

                            verification of its ownership of the FTRs offered. An FTR

                            Offer for a specified MW quantity of FTRs shall constitute

                            an Offer to sell a quantity of FTRs equal to or less than the

                            specified quantity. An FTR Offer may not specify a

                            minimum quantity offered but may specify a reserve price,

                            below which the FTR Holder does not wish to sell the FTR.

                       c.   All FTR Offers and the actions of FTR Holders submitting

                            such offers shall be subject to the provisions of Module D.




                                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                           44.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                       FTR Offers
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        44.4A
FERC Electric Tariff   Responsibilities of Each Market Participant Self-Scheduling
MODULES                                                                     30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              44.4A.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Self-scheduled FTR
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   a.     Each ARR Holder desiring to self-schedule an FTR in an annual FTR Auction shall

   include and adhere to the following information, as applicable:

          i.      The self-scheduled FTR will be an FTR Obligation type;

          ii.     FTR Receipt Point and FTR Delivery Point will correspond to the originating

   ARR’s Receipt Point and Delivery Point, respectively;

          iii.    The MW quantity cannot exceed the originating ARR MW;

          iv.     The self-scheduled FTR will be a price-taker, (i.e., it will be price insensitive);

          v.      The On-Peak or Off-Peak type for the self-scheduled FTR will be determined

   from the originating ARR;

          vi.     The start and stop dates for the self-scheduled FTR will also be inherited from the

   originating ARR; and

          vii.    The self-scheduling of FTRs corresponding to allocated infeasible ARRs is not

          permitted.


   b.     Each ARR Holder that self-schedules FTRs must provide verification of its ownership of

          the originating ARR.


   c.     All self-scheduled FTRs and the actions of ARR Holders submitting such self-scheduled

          FTRs shall be subject to the provisions of Module D.




                                                                         Effective On: November 21, 2015
MISO                                                                        44.5
FERC Electric Tariff   Selection of Bids and Determination of FTR Clearing Price
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0




                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         44.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Selection of Winning FTR Bids
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0




                               Independent auctions shall be held for the On-Peak period and Off-

                       Peak Period in each of the four (4) seasons of the Year. The Transmission

                       Provider shall use for each FTR Auction a linear programming model that

                       considers all FTR Bids and self-scheduled FTRs submitted and selects a

                       combination of the Winning FTR Bids that: (i) respects the transfer

                       capability of the Transmission Provider Region over the period in the

                       subject Season; and (ii) maximizes the combined net economic value (as

                       expressed in the FTR Bids) of the Winning FTR Bids, recognizing any

                       reserve price specified in FTR Offers. In order to maximize the net

                       economic value of the Winning FTR Bids, the linear programming model

                       shall automatically reconfigure the FTRs offered for sale in FTR Auctions

                       by FTR Holders, consistent with the provisions herein. In the event that

                       there are two (2) or more Winning FTR Bids that are identical in all

                       material respects except for the quantity of MW sought, then each such

                       Winning FTR Bid shall reflect its prorata share of the quantity of MW

                       sought that can be awarded. Starting with planning year 2013/2014, any

                       cleared FTR with its source and sink defined as within the same Bus will

                       be rejected and resettled within the Annual ARR Allocation period where

                       it cleared.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                            44.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff     Selection of Winning FTR Bids
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         44.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Determination of the FTR Market Clearing Price
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              All Comparable FTRs sold in an FTR Auction shall be sold at the

                       same FTR Market Clearing Price, expressed in $/MW. For a FTR

                       Obligation, the FTR Market Clearing Price is the negative of the rate of

                       change in the objective function value of the FTR Auction linear

                       programming problem for an infinitesimal increment or decrement of flow

                       from the FTR Receipt Point to the FTR Delivery Point. This can also be

                       calculated from the difference in shadow price of the power flow balance

                       at the FTR Receipt Point and at the FTR Delivery Point. For all FTR

                       Options, the FTR Market Clearing Price is calculated from the shadow

                       prices of the transmission constraints in the FTR Auction linear

                       programming problem. The shadow price of a transmission constraint is

                       the rate of change in the objective function value for an infinitesimal

                       increment or decrement in the capacity of the constraint. The FTR Market

                       Clearing Price for the FTR Option is the sum of the product of the PTDF

                       (or OTDF) of the FTR Option on the constraint multiplied by the shadow

                       price of the constraint limit in the direction of the corresponding PTDF (or

                       OTDF) over all transmission constraints.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              44.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Auction Settlement
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                        Each Market Participant that received a Winning FTR Bid shall pay or

                 collect the FTR Market Clearing Price from the Transmission Provider for all

                 FTRs awarded to it in accordance with the provisions of the Business Practices

                 Manuals. The Transmission Provider shall pay or collect the FTR Auction

                 Market Clearing Prices for each ARR that was allocated to the ARR Holder in the

                 Annual ARR Allocation. Market Participants will pay for or collect the FTR

                 Auction Clearing Price for their self-scheduled FTRs. All remaining revenues

                 from the annual FTR Auction collected by the Transmission Provider shall be

                 allocated among the ARR Holders pursuant to the provisions of Section 43.2.4.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              44.7
FERC Electric Tariff                             Continuing Confidentiality of FTR Bids and FTR Offers
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall release the Bid and Offer data ninety (90) days after the

   annual FTR Auction, except as required pursuant to the provisions of Section 38.9. The posted

   data shall consist of: (i) FTR Receipt Point; (ii) FTR Delivery Point; (iii) whether the right is an

   Obligation or an Option; (iv) FTR Period (peak/off-peak); (v) FTR term; (vi) whether the right is

   a Buy or Sell; (vii) anonymous identification code of FTR Bidder/FTR Offeror; (viii) FTR Bid

   curve/FTR Offer curve; and (ix) the round of the FTR Auction where each Bid or Offer was

   submitted. All Bid and Offer data will be provided rather than only cleared Bids and Offers.

   When these FTR Bids and Offers are posted, the names of the FTR Bidders and FTR Offerors

   shall not be publicly revealed, but they shall be posted in such a way as to allow the tracking of

   each individual entity’s Bids and Offers over time.




                                                                             Effective On: March 15, 2016
MISO                                                                                               45
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Monthly FTR Auctions
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                 The Transmission Provider shall conduct FTR Auctions on a monthly basis in a

          manner consistent with this Tariff and the standards and procedures set forth in the

          Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             45.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Nature and Timing of Monthly Auctions
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                 The Transmission Provider shall make available for purchase in the monthly FTR

          Auctions the entire expected Adjusted FTR Capability for the relevant terms offered in

          the FTR Auctions.

                 a.     The monthly FTR Auctions will offer the following FTR terms:

                                1)     In May, the Transmission Provider will offer June;

                                2)     In June, the Transmission Provider will offer July, August,

                                Fall, Winter and Spring;

                                3)     In July, the Transmission Provider will offer August,

                                September, October, and November;

                                4)     In August, the Transmission Provider will offer September,

                                October, and November;

                                5)     In September, the Transmission Provider will offer October,

                                November, Winter and Spring;

                                6)     In October, the Transmission Provider will offer November,

                                December, January and February;

                                7)     In November, the Transmission Provider will offer December,

                                January and February;

                                8)     In December, the Transmission Provider will offer, January,

                                February; and Spring;

                                9)     In January, the Transmission Provider will offer February,

                                March, April; and May;

                                10)    In February, the Transmission Provider will offer March, April,

                                and May;



                                                                           Effective On: March 15, 2016
MISO                                                                                            45.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Nature and Timing of Monthly Auctions
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


                              11)     In March, the Transmission Provider will offer, April, and May;

                              12)     In April, the Transmission Provider will offer May.

                       b.     FTRs offered by the Transmission Provider through monthly FTR

                       Auctions shall have a term of one (1) Month, beginning on the first Day of

                       the Month, or one (1) Season, beginning the first Day of the Season.

                       c.     All FTR Bids and Offers must be submitted to the Transmission

                       Provider during the Monthly Bidding Period, pursuant to the requirements

                       contained in the Business Practices Manuals.

                       d.     The Transmission Provider shall post the results of the monthly

                       FTR Auction on the internet webpage. The posted results shall consist of:

                       (i) FTR Receipt Point; (ii) FTR Delivery Point; (iii) FTR quantity; (iv)

                       whether the right is an Obligation or an Option; (v) FTR Period (peak/off-

                       peak); (vi) FTR term; (vii) whether the right is a Buy or Sell; (viii) name

                       of the FTR Bidder/FTR Offeror; (ix) the round of the FTR Auction where

                       each FTR was awarded; and (x) FTR Market Clearing Price for each FTR

                       awarded in the monthly FTR Auction.




                                                                          Effective On: March 15, 2016
MISO                                                                      45.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Provider Responsibilities Prior to Auction
MODULES                                                                 30.0.0




                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         45.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Establish Auction Rules
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall develop and use auction rules and

                       procedures as specified in this Section 45.2 and implement them through

                       procedures consistent with the Business Practices Manuals.




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           45.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Evaluate Creditworthiness
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              The Transmission Provider shall ensure that each party submitting

                       an FTR Bid is a Market Participant qualified to submit such a bid

                       consistent with the creditworthiness provisions maintained by the

                       Transmission Provider. As a result of this evaluation of creditworthiness,

                       the Transmission Provider shall establish a limit before the auction on the

                       value of the FTRs that the Market Participant may be awarded in the

                       auction. Market Participants will not be permitted to submit FTR Bids

                       that exceed this permissible amount.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        45.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                  Information to be Made Available to FTR Bidders and Offerors
MODULES                                                                                     33.0.0


                              To aid Market Participants’ participation in the auction, the

                       Transmission Provider shall make available information on Marginal

                       Congestion Components of Day-Ahead Ex Post LMPs and historical

                       congestion before each FTR Auction. The Transmission Provider will

                       also make available data to be used in the optimization model.




                                                                         Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                          45.2.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Other Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0




                              The Transmission Provider will establish an auditable information

                       system to facilitate analysis and acceptance or rejection of FTR Bids, to

                       provide a record of all FTR Bids, and to provide all necessary assistance in

                       the resolution of disputes that arise from questions regarding the

                       acceptance, rejection, awarding and recording of FTR Bids.

                              The Transmission Provider will establish a system to communicate

                       auction-related information to all auction participants. The Transmission

                       Provider will receive FTR Bids from any entity that meets the eligibility

                       criteria established in this Tariff and will implement the auction bidding

                       rules previously established by the Transmission Provider. The

                       Transmission Provider will properly utilize an optimization process

                       program to determine the set of Winning FTR Bids for each auction and

                       calculate the FTR Market Clearing Price of all FTRs at the conclusion of

                       the auction, in the manner described in this Tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                         45.3
FERC Electric Tariff   Responsibilities of Market Participant Submitting FTR Bids
MODULES                                                                    30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           45.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Creditworthiness
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


                              The aggregate value of the FTR Bids submitted by any Market

                       Participant submitting FTR Bids (FTR Bidder) into the FTR Auction shall

                       not exceed that Market Participant’s ability to pay as determined by the

                       Transmission Provider (based on an analysis of the FTR Bidder’s

                       creditworthiness). Each FTR Bidder must pay the FTR Market Clearing

                       Price for each FTR it is awarded in the auction, as calculated pursuant to

                       Section 45.5.2.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          45.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        FTR Bids
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


          a.     Each FTR Bidder shall include the following information in its FTR Bid:

                 i.     The type of FTR (i.e. Receipt Point-To-Delivery Point FTR Obligation,

                        Receipt Point-To-Delivery Point FTR Option);

                 ii.    FTR Receipt Point, FTR Delivery Point, as applicable, provided, that, the

                        FTR cannot be defined as having an FTR Receipt Point and an FTR

                        Delivery Point within the same Bus;

                 iii.   The maximum MW desired;

                 iv.    The maximum acceptable price, in $/MW;

                 v.     Whether for On-Peak or Off-Peak; and

                 vi.    The Month or Season for which the FTR Bid is being submitted.

          b.     An FTR Bid for a specified MW quantity of FTRs shall constitute an FTR Bid to

                 purchase a quantity of FTRs equal to or less than the specified quantity. An FTR

                 Bid may not specify a minimum quantity of MW that the FTR Bidder wishes to

                 purchase.

          c.     All FTR Bids and the actions of FTR Bidders shall be subject to the provisions of

                 Module D.

          d.     An FTR Bid that defines the FTR source and sink within the same Bus in the FTR

                 Auction model will be rejected.




                                                                     Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                   45.4
FERC Electric Tariff   Responsibilities of Each FTR Offeror
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             45.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                         FTR Offers
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


          a.     Each FTR Holder desiring to sell an FTR in an FTR Auction shall include the

                 following information in its FTR Offer:

                 i.     The type of FTR (i.e. Receipt Point-To-Delivery Point FTR Obligation, or

                        Receipt Point-To-Delivery Point FTR Option);

                 ii.    FTR Receipt Point or FTR Delivery Point, as applicable;

                 iii.   The MW quantity of the FTR offered, which cannot exceed the quantity of

                        the FTR MW from which it is being offered;

                 iv.    The minimum acceptable price, if any (reserve price), in $/MW;

                 v.     Whether for On-Peak or Off-Peak; and

                 vi.    The Month or Season for which the FTR Bid is being submitted.

          b.     Each FTR Holder that Offers FTRs for sale must provide verification of its

                 ownership of the FTRs offered. An FTR Offer for a specified MW quantity of

                 FTRs shall constitute an Offer to sell a quantity of FTRs equal to or less than the

                 specified quantity. An FTR Offer may not specify a minimum quantity offered

                 but may specify a reserve price, below which the FTR Holder does not wish to

                 sell the FTR.

          c.     All FTR Offers and the actions of FTR Holders submitting such offers shall be

                 subject to the provisions of Module D.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                        45.5
FERC Electric Tariff   Selection of Bids and Determination of FTR Clearing Price
MODULES                                                                   30.0.0




                                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             45.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Selection of Winning Bids
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


          Independent auctions shall be held for the On-Peak and Off-Peak period in a given

   Month. The Transmission Provider shall use for each FTR Auction a linear programming model

   that considers all FTR Bids and FTR Offers (Winning FTR Bids and Winning FTR Offers,

   respectively) that: i) respects the transfer capability of the Transmission Provider Region over

   the Period in the subject Month or Season; and ii) maximizes the combined net economic value

   (as expressed in the FTR Bids) of the Winning FTR Bids. The linear programming model shall

   automatically reconfigure the FTRs offered for sale in FTR Auctions by FTR Holders, consistent

   with the provisions herein. In the event that there are two (2) or more Winning FTR Bids that

   are identical in all material respects except for the quantity of MW sought, then each such

   Winning FTR Bid shall reflect its pro rata share of the quantity of MW sought that can be

   awarded. Starting with the planning year 2013/2014, any cleared FTR with its source and sink

   defined as within the same Bus will be rejected and resettled within the Annual ARR Allocation

   period where it cleared.




                                                                       Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                          45.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Determination of the FTR Market Clearing Price
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0




                              All Comparable FTRs sold in an FTR Auction shall be sold at the

                       same FTR Market Clearing Price, expressed in $/MW. For an FTR

                       Obligation, the FTR Market Clearing Price is the negative of the rate of

                       change in the objective function value of the FTR auction linear

                       programming problem for an infinitesimal increment or decrement of flow

                       from the FTR Receipt Point to the FTR Delivery Point. This can also be

                       calculated from the difference in shadow price of the power flow balance

                       at the FTR Receipt Point and at the FTR Delivery Point. For all FTR

                       Options, the FTR Market Clearing Price is calculated from the shadow

                       prices of the transmission constraints in the FTR auction linear

                       programming problem.

                              The shadow price of a transmission constraint is the rate of change

                       in the objective function value of the infinitesimal increment or decrement

                       in the capacity of the constraint. The FTR Market Clearing Price for the

                       FTR Option is the sum of the product of the Planned Transmission

                       Distribution Factor (PTDF) of the FTR Option on the constraint multiplied

                       by the shadow price at the constraint limit in the direction of the

                       corresponding PTDF (or Outage Transmission Distribution Factor

                       (OTDF)) over all transmission constraints.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                45.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Auction Settlement
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


           Each Market Participant that submitted a Winning FTR Bid shall be charged the FTR

   Market Clearing Price for all FTRs awarded to it in accordance with the provisions of the

   Business Practices Manuals. The Transmission Provider shall credit to each FTR Holder the

   FTR Market Clearing Price for each FTR held by that FTR Holder that was sold in the FTR

   Auction. After all such credits are provided to sellers of existing FTRs, the net sum of the FTR

   Auction revenues shall be added to the Excess Congestion Charge Fund for the Month and shall

   be used in performing the true-up funding to FTR Holders for the Month as described in Section

   39.3.4.c.i of this Tariff. Any amounts remaining in the Excess Congestion Charged Fund,

   including FTR Auction revenues for the Month, shall be carried forward to the end of the Year

   and distributed pro rata among Transmission Customers, as described in Section 39.3.4.c.ii of

   this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              45.7
FERC Electric Tariff                             Continuing Confidentiality of FTR Bids and FTR Offers
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall release the Bid and Offer data ninety (90) days after the

   monthly FTR Auction, except as required pursuant to the provisions of Section 38.9. The posted

   data shall consist of: (i) FTR Receipt Point; (ii) FTR Delivery Point; (iii) whether the right is an

   Obligation or an Option; (iv) FTR Period (peak/off-peak); (v) FTR term; (vi) whether the right is

   a Buy or Sell; (vii) anonymous identification code of FTR Bidder/FTR Offeror; (viii) FTR Bid

   curve/FTR Offer curve; and (ix) the round of the FTR Auction where each Bid or Offer was

   submitted. All Bid and Offer data will be provided rather than only cleared Bids and Offers.

   When these FTR Bids and Offers are posted, the names of the FTR Bidders and Offerors shall

   not be publicly revealed, but they shall be posted in such a way as to allow the tracking of each

   individual entity’s Bids and Offers over time.




                                                                             Effective On: March 15, 2016
MISO                                                                                                45.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Transition to ARRs and LTTRs
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


                        To implement and facilitate the transition to ARRs and LTTRs, the

                 Transmission Provider shall conduct in January 2008 the monthly FTR

                 allocations, and the monthly FTR Auctions, for February, March, April and May

                 2008 (“Transitional Auction”). Market Participants shall be required to allocate

                 enough credit to cover their total bids in such monthly FTR Auctions. Each such

                 FTR Auction shall be settled on the first calendar day of the month to which they

                 pertain. Pending settlement, the revenues from each FTR Auction shall be

                 transferred to credit in the form of measured exposure. The transitional auction

                 shall comply with and be subject to the provisions of Attachment L, Section

                 III.B.5 of this Tariff, concerning the allocation of credits from FTR Auction

                 activities, and Section 45.6 of this Tariff, concerning the allocation of surplus

                 revenues from FTR Auction activities. The FTR Auction credit process in

                 Attachment L, Section III.B.5 of this Tariff, provides for the reallocation of credit

                 or refund of collateral in excess of gross bids or measured exposures from this

                 transitional auction.

                        Section 45.6 of the EMT provides for the use of the FTR Auction revenues

                 for FTR funding, and for the reallocation and/or refund of any revenue surplus.

                        From January through May 2008, the Transmission Provider may also

                 manually administer the transfers of FTRs in the secondary market through

                 service requests submitted to the Transmission Provider’s portal at least two

                 weeks in advance of the effective date of the secondary transfer. After the

                 existing FTR system and software are terminated and taken offline, requests for




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              45.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Transition to ARRs and LTTRs
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


                 FTRs related to transmission requests shall be manually processed by the

                 Transmission Provider.

                         These transitional activities are hereby authorized notwithstanding any

                 other provisions of this Tariff to the contrary, including, section 1.104 (“FTR

                 Auction”), section 1.203 (“Monthly Bidding Period”), and section 45 (“Monthly

                 FTR Auctions”), which shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to allow

                 such transitional activities.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 46
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Network Upgrades
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


                 Market Participants that fund (pay for construction of) Network Upgrades and

          elect not to receive credits, if eligible, under Attachment FF of this Tariff shall be deemed

          eligible by the Transmission Provider to receive FTRs and LTTRs. Entities eligible to

          receive FTRs and LTTRs pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be permitted to

          elect any set of ARR Receipt Points and Delivery Point, provided that the combination of

          such FTRs issued satisfy the two (2) conditions set forth in Section 46.1 of this Tariff.

          New Point-to-Point Transmission Services associated with construction of new

          transmission capacity and receiving FTRs and LTTRs pursuant to this Section will not be

          eligible to receive Stage 1B ARRs or Stage 2 compensation if the ARR Receipt Point and

          ARR Delivery Point of the LTTRs received do not match exactly with the Source and

          Sink of the Transmission Service. The in-service date of the network upgrades must

          coincide with the start date of the Point-To-Point Service for which the FTRs and LTTRs

          are requested pursuant to this Section.

                 A Market Participant funding a Network Upgrade can request the creation of new

          Commercial pricing node(s) (CPNodes) if the total cost of the Network Upgrade is in

          excess of one million dollars. The Market Participant can then use the newly created

          CPNodes that are requested, as the ARR Receipt Points and Delivery Points.

                 If a qualified Market Participant funds the Network Upgrades necessary to make

          feasible otherwise infeasible ARRs, the Transmission Provider will provide the qualified

          Market Participant with a detailed description of the upgrades necessary to achieve the

          desired ARR feasibility, to the extent that this description is not currently provided for

          under the Tariff or Transmission Provider procedures. The Market Participant may then




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              46
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Network Upgrades
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


          utilize existing Tariff provisions in Attachment FF to be compensated for the upgrade or

          request FTRs and LTTRs in accordance with this Section.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          46.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                           LTTRs and FTRs for Network Upgrades
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                        Market Participants may request LTTRs for the incremental transmission

                 capacity created by the Network Upgrade that they fund. Market Participants

                 must follow the timeline set forth by the Transmission Provider to make such a

                 request in order to obtain the LTTRs when the Network Upgrade becomes

                 effective. The Transmission Provider will perform the SFT for the requested

                 LTTR paths using the most recent Annual ARR Allocation models and by treating

                 the previously allocated feasible LTTRs as fixed. The SFT will ensure that any

                 previously allocated feasible LTTRs are not degraded. Any LTTRs associated

                 with the Network Upgrade issued by the Transmission Provider will remain in

                 effect from the time the network upgrade becomes effective to the end of the

                 current allocation period and will be considered to be prior-year allocated LTTRs

                 in the upcoming ARR Allocation. Any LTTRs issued by the Transmission

                 Provider under this section will not be eligible for settlement for the remainder of

                 the current annual allocation period.

                        Market Participants may request FTRs associated with the Network

                 Upgrade for the balance of the current annual allocation period. The Transmission

                 Provider will perform the SFT by inserting the Network Upgrade into the most

                 recent FTR Auction models.

                        The SFT will ensure that the FTRs in the study models will be fixed. The

                 FTRs resulting from the SFT will remain in effect from the time the Network

                 Upgrade becomes effective to the end of the current annual allocation period.

                        The Transmission Provider will make Stage 1A ARR Entitlements



                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         46.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          LTTRs and FTRs for Network Upgrades
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


                 available for the future Annual ARR Allocation periods. The ARR Entitlements’

                 Receipt Point, Delivery Point and MW will match the LTTRs previously

                 allocated. Market Participants shall follow and shall be applied the nomination

                 procedures laid out in Section 43.2.4 to obtain ARRs, LTTRs and/or counterflow

                 assignment.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              46.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Allocation Among Multiple Market Participants
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


          Where multiple Market Participants fund a Network Upgrade, absent an agreement

   among such Market Participants to the contrary, the ARRs allocated pursuant to the provisions of

   Section 43 shall be allocated to such Market Participants in proportion to their financial

   contribution to the Network Upgrade (including construction, research, and development costs),

   as reported by the Market Participants to the Transmission Provider. Market Participants

   collectively funding a Network Upgrade are encouraged to agree in writing among themselves

   prior to any significant outlays, how such ARRs will be allocated following completion of the

   Network Upgrade




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            46.3
FERC Electric Tariff                    Treatment of Participant-Funded Network Upgrades From Integr
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


          Market Participants that funded network upgrades in a different transmission provider

   region prior to integration with the Transmission Provider may be eligible for LTTRs beginning

   with the first full Annual ARR Allocation period following integration with the Transmission

   Provider. Market Participants may also be eligible for FTRs for the balance of the Annual ARR

   Allocation period if the integration occurred on a date other than June 1. In order to qualify under

   this Section, the costs of such upgrades shall have been deemed to be ineligible for wholesale

   transmission rate recovery and shall not have been included in transmission credits under the

   previous transmission provider’s tariff, and shall be in-service prior to the end of the requesting

   Market Participant’s year 1 of the Annual ARR Allocation. The Transmission Provider will

   coordinate with the prior transmission provider to identify the capacity created by the network

   upgrades, and net out any capacity (a) for which the party that funded the upgrade has been

   reimbursed through compensation mechanisms under the prior transmission provider’s tariff, to

   the extent that the participant’s right to additional compensation associated with the upgrades has

   been transferred or retired as a result of such reimbursement and (b) used to grant network,

   generator interconnection, or long-term point-to-point transmission service to the funding party

   or another transmission or interconnection customer, when such service is eligible for an

   allocation of ARRs. The Transmission Provider will convert the net incremental capacity to

   BRSS entitlements. The start date of the BRSS entitlements granted under this Section 46.3 will

   coincide with the first full Season following the in-service date of the network upgrade. These

   entitlements will not be considered as Counterflow ARR Entitlements. The Transmission

   Provider will create CPNodes on both sides of the network upgrade to represent the upgrade. The

   Market Participant can then use the newly created CPNodes as the ARR Receipt Points and




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           46.3
FERC Electric Tariff                   Treatment of Participant-Funded Network Upgrades From Integr
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   Delivery Points to establish BRSS entitlements. Incremental capacity that is not nominated or

   allocated in Stage 1A shall be eligible for nomination by the funding party in Stage 1B or for

   inclusion in Stage 2. Network Upgrades in-service after the end of the requesting Market

   Participant’s year 1 of the Annual ARR Allocation shall be eligible for LTTRs in accordance

   with Section 46.1 of the Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 47
FERC Electric Tariff                                              MISO Transmission Portfolio Solutions
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   MISO Transmission Portfolio Solutions (MTPSs) include Multi Value Projects (MVP) and JTIQ

   (Joint Targeted Interconnection Queue) projects. These are upgrades defined under Attachment

   FF of this Tariff. Entities that are subject to the MVP or JTIQ allocation charges will be eligible

   for a credit based on the value of the MTPS ARRs associated with these projects.




                                                                        Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                              47.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            MTPS ARR Entitlements
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   The MTPS ARR Entitlements are defined by: (i) an ARR Receipt Point; (ii) an ARR Delivery

   Point; (iii) an ARR Quantity; (iv) an ARR Period (on-peak/off peak); and (v) an ARR Term.

   Prior to the Annual ARR Registration, the Transmission Provider will perform an analysis to

   identify the incremental capacity created by the MTPS upgrades planned to be in-service before

   the start of, or at any time during, the effective period of the upcoming Annual ARR Allocation.

   An MTPS ARR analysis shall be performed for the first four consecutive full Seasons after an

   MTPS comes into service. If such four full Seasons are partly within an upcoming Annual ARR

   Allocation period, and partly within the next Annual ARR Allocation period, the MTPS ARR

   analysis shall initially be performed for such full Season(s) that are within the upcoming period,

   and thereafter shall be performed for such other full Season(s) that are within the next period.

   For each MTPS upgrade covered by this section of the Tariff, the Transmission Provider will

   create new CPNodes that will be used as the ARR Receipt Point and ARR Delivery Point for the

   associated MTPS ARR Entitlement. The Transmission Provider will perform the SFT to

   determine the incremental capacity created by the eligible upgrade using the most recent Stage

   1B ARR allocation models and by treating the previously allocated feasible ARRs as fixed. The

   MTPS ARR Entitlements will terminate at the end of the life of the associated MTPS facility.




                                                                        Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                            47.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     MTPS ARRs
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   The nominated Candidate MTPS ARRs, and allocated MTPS ARRs, are defined by: (i) an ARR

   Receipt Point; (ii) an ARR Delivery Point; (iii) an ARR Quantity; (iv) an ARR Period (on-

   peak/off peak); and (v) an ARR Term. The Transmission Provider will fully nominate the MTPS

   ARR Entitlements during Stage 1B of the Annual ARR Allocation. The allocation of MTPS

   ARRs will be subject to the SFT in Stage 1B. MTPS ARRs will not be self-scheduled in the

   Annual FTR Auction.




                                                                    Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                            47.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            MTPS ARR Settlement
MODULES                                                                                       33.0.0


   The allocated MTPS ARRs will only be valued, based on clearing prices from the corresponding

   Annual FTR Auction, when the auction clearing price at the ARR Receipt Point is greater than

   the auction clearing price at the ARR Delivery Point. Therefore, MTPS ARRs are similar to

   options, as their value will always be positive. At the end of each Month, the Transmission

   Provider will distribute that Month's share of the sum of the value of all MTPS ARRs, pro rata,

   based on MTPS allocation charges pursuant to Schedules 26-A, 26-G, 26-I and 39 of this Tariff,

   as applicable.




                                                                     Effective On: November 14, 2024
MISO                                                                                               48
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Procedures for Correcting Prices
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider, with the assistance of the IMM as appropriate, shall monitor

   for possible Market Implementation Errors and Emergency System Conditions in the Energy and

   Operating Reserve Markets. If Market Implementation Errors or Emergency System Conditions

   are identified, the Transmission Provider may impose corrective measures as specified below

   and take immediate action to remedy the Market Implementation Error or Emergency System

   Condition as soon as possible.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           48.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Market Implementation Errors and Emergency System Conditions
MODULES                                                                                     30.0.0


                 Market Implementation Errors and Emergency System Conditions do not include

          situations in which prices rise to levels based on demand and supply levels determined by

          efficient competition in periods of relative scarcity, or fall to levels based on demand and

          supply levels determined by efficient competition in times of relative surplus. The

          Transmission Provider shall, to the extent possible, avoid interfering with these

          competitive price signals.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            48.2
FERC Electric Tariff                          Evaluating and Correcting Market Implementation Errors
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


                 When time permits, Market Implementation Errors and Emergency System

          Conditions shall be addressed in consultation and cooperation with Market Participants

          and jurisdictional agencies, as appropriate, through the process described in the ISO

          Agreement. The Transmission Provider is committed to ongoing consultation and

          cooperation with Market Participants and jurisdictional agencies.




                                                                          Effective On: October 5, 2016
MISO                                                                                            48.3
FERC Electric Tariff                       Revising LMPs and Prices for Market Implementation Errors
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


   a.     The Transmission Provider may change LMPs or other prices cleared through the Energy

          and Operating Reserve Markets and the corresponding changes in Settlements or

          payments attributable to a Market Implementation Error or Emergency System

          Conditions only when: (i) one or more LMPs or any other prices or payments could not

          be developed; or (ii) LMPs or other prices cleared through the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets and the corresponding changes in Settlements deviate from what would

          have been produced absent an identified Market Implementation Error or Emergency

          System Conditions.

   b.     In any Operating Day for which the Transmission Provider reasonably believes that a

          Market Implementation Error or Emergency System Conditions will require changes to

          one or more LMPs or other prices clearing through the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets and the corresponding changes in Settlement prices, the Transmission Provider

          shall post on the OASIS and its website as soon as reasonably practicable, a notice that

          the Transmission Provider is considering a correction.

   c.     Prior to making a price correction, if reasonably possible, but in no event later than

          thirteen (13) Calendar Days following the Operating Day in which the changes in LMPs

          or other prices clearing through the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, and the

          corresponding changes in Settlement prices would be made by the contemplated price

          correction, the Transmission Provider must either post a description of its proposed price

          correction by posting the notice on the OASIS and its website or remove the notice of

          possible price correction from the OASIS and its website. Unless a price correction is

          posted within such period, the notice of possible price correction shall be deemed to be




                                                                              Effective On: July 31, 2023
MISO                                                                                           48.3
FERC Electric Tariff                      Revising LMPs and Prices for Market Implementation Errors
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


          withdrawn.

   d.     The Transmission Provider shall recalculate changes in LMPs or other prices cleared

          through the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets and the corresponding changes in

          Settlements in a manner that reflects, as closely as reasonably practicable, the LMPs or

          other prices that would have cleared through the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets

          but for the Market Implementation Error or Emergency System Conditions, and shall

          substitute the recalculated LMPs or other prices that would have cleared the Energy

          Markets absent the Market Implementation Error or Emergency System Conditions.

          Such changes in LMPs or other prices cleared through the Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets shall be completed as soon as reasonably practicable, but in no event later than

          thirteen (13) Calendar Days following the Operating Day in which the changes in LMPs,

          or other prices clearing through the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, would be

          made by the contemplated price correction, and shall serve as the basis for Settlement.

   e.     In any instance in which the Transmission Provider makes price corrections, it shall, as

          soon as possible thereafter, address the Market Implementation Errors, or Emergency

          System Conditions that resulted in incorrect prices.




                                                                            Effective On: July 31, 2023
MISO                                                                                                  49
FERC Electric Tariff                        Transitional LTTR Infeasibility Settlement for Second Planni
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   For any infeasible ARRs established during the first five Annual ARR Allocations following the

   integration of the Second Planning Area, the Transmission Provider shall determine and settle

   LTTR infeasibility, as set forth in Section 43.2.4.a.v, separately for Market Participants in the

   First Planning Area and the Second Planning Area. If the applicable LTTR sources in one

   Planning Area and sinks in the same Planning Area, then the entire cost of settling the

   infeasibility shall be allocated to that Planning Area. If the applicable LTTR sources in one

   Planning Area and sinks in a different Planning Area, then the cost of settling infeasibility shall

   be allocated equally to the two Planning Areas.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                    MODULE D
FERC Electric Tariff   MARKET MONITORING AND MITIGATION MEASURES
MODULES                                                     30.0.0




                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                I
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   INTRODUCTION
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   The Market Monitoring and Mitigation Measures of this Module D include Part II, the

   Independent Market Monitoring Plan (the “Plan”), and Part III, the Market Mitigation Measures.

   The Plan is intended to provide for the independent, impartial and effective monitoring and

   reporting on the Markets and Services as a whole. The Market Mitigation Measures are intended

   to provide the means for the Transmission Provider to mitigate the market effects of any conduct

   that would distort competitive outcomes in the Markets and Services administered by the

   Transmission Provider. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions set forth in this

   Module D and the provisions set forth elsewhere in the Tariff, the provisions set forth in this

   Module D shall control.



   An Independent Market Monitor (“IMM”) shall be responsible for the implementation of the

   Plan. The IMM’s mission shall be to pursue the purposes and objectives of the Plan, including

   the protection of both consumers and Market Participants by the identification and reporting of

   market design flaws and market power abuses, in a manner consistent with the Tariff. The IMM

   shall perform its duties in accordance with this Module D and other applicable provisions of the

   Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                     II
FERC Electric Tariff   INDEPENDENT MARKET MONITORING PLAN
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                   50
FERC Electric Tariff   Purpose and Objectives of the Plan
MODULES                                            30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               50.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Purposes and Objectives
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   This Plan is intended to provide for the independent, impartial and effective monitoring of and

   reporting on: (1) the competitive performance and efficiency of the Transmission Provider’s

   Markets and Services, including identification of opportunities to promote operational efficiency

   improvements; (2) the conduct of Market Participants, Transmission Owners, Local Balancing

   Authorities, and the Transmission Provider, including but not limited, to any exercise of or

   attempt to exercise, market power in any Market or to inefficiently reduce the quantity or quality

   of Transmission Service in the region; (3) the operation, use, and congestion of the Transmission

   System as such system affects competitive conditions in the region; (4) the operation of the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area and Local Balancing Authority Area and actions taken by the

   MISO Balancing Authority and the Local Balancing Authorities that unduly discriminate among

   the Market Participants or affect the competitiveness or economic efficiency of the Markets and

   Services; and (5) adequacy and effectiveness of any proposed or actual Tariff provision, market

   rule, procedure, or action that affects the competitiveness or economic efficiency of the Markets

   and Services.



   The Plan will be implemented by the IMM. As set forth in this Module D, the IMM shall report

   its findings to the FERC, state regulatory commissions, and the Transmission Provider and

   provide annual reports and other reports to the Transmission Provider’s Board of Directors,

   FERC, state regulatory commissions, and the Transmission Provider that will include relevant

   market data and the results of analyses of that data undertaken by the IMM. In addition, the

   IMM will conduct preliminary investigations of Market Participants’ conduct as specified in this

   Plan, the results of which will be reported to Interested Government Agencies when further




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                 50.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Purposes and Objectives
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   action may be warranted. The IMM will also respond to requests from FERC or state regulatory

   commissions for additional analysis or data the IMM has in its possession, subject to its

   obligation to protect the confidentiality of the data, as specified in this Module D. The IMM also

   will respond to complaints by customers of the Transmission Provider and to requests for public

   data that are not readily available.



   The Plan is intended to protect and foster competition, while minimizing interference with open

   and competitive markets. The IMM will recognize that conduct that might under some

   circumstances suggest an attempt to exercise market power is, under other circumstances, pro-

   competitive and efficient. In making this distinction, the IMM will generally focus on an

   analysis of the identified conduct and associated market impacts, rather than seeking to

   determine the intent of the participant (e.g., conducting profitability analyses that would require

   comprehensive information on all the physical and final positions of a participant). The IMM

   will work to ensure that all monitoring and reporting activities are implemented fairly and

   consistently in accordance with the Plan.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                               50.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Markets to be Monitored
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   The IMM will monitor the Markets and Services provided by the Transmission Provider,

   including the imbalance energy market, any congestion management market or system, any

   Ancillary Services market, any market for the purchase or sale of transmission rights, Planning

   Resource Auction, and any other market administered, coordinated or facilitated by the

   Transmission Provider. The IMM will not monitor bilateral Energy, Ancillary Services or

   Capacity markets, or private transmission rights not administered, coordinated or facilitated by

   the Transmission Provider, except to periodically assess the effect of these markets on the

   Markets and Services administered by the Transmission Provider, or the effects of the

   Transmission Provider Markets and Services on these markets.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                  50.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Persons and Entities Subject to the Plan
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider, the IMM, the Local Balancing Authorities, and any person or entity

   participating in any of the Markets and Services or that takes service under or is a party to any

   tariff or agreements listed on Attachment P to the Tariff, shall be subject to the terms, conditions

   and obligations of this Plan.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                50.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Independence and Oversight
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   The IMM shall report to the Transmission Provider’s Board of Directors. Any management

   representatives of the Transmission Provider that are members of the Board of Directors shall be

   excluded from this oversight function. The IMM shall be granted complete independence to

   perform those activities necessary to provide impartial and effective market monitoring within

   the scope of the Plan. No person, party or agent, including the Transmission Provider, state

   regulatory commissions, or any other administrative oversight group responsible for the

   administration of the IMM activities, shall be granted authority to screen, alter, delete, or delay

   IMM investigations or the preparation of findings, conclusions, and recommendations developed

   by the IMM that fall within the scope of market monitoring responsibilities contained in the Plan.




                                                                         Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                51
FERC Electric Tariff         Market Monitoring Liaison
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              51.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Establishment
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider’s Board of Directors shall appoint a Market Monitoring Liaison

   Officer to carry out the functions described in this Section 51.




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                               51.2
FERC Electric Tariff                          Responsibilities of the Market Monitoring Liaison Officer
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   a.     The Market Monitoring Liaison Officer shall:

          i.     Be responsible for administrative oversight of the contractual agreement with the

                 IMM (Attachment S-1 of the Tariff);

          ii.    Support efforts of the IMM to collect necessary data and information from the

                 Transmission Provider;

          iii.   Facilitate the provision of comments from the Transmission Provider as

                 appropriate on issues investigated or analyzed by the IMM related to the factual

                 accuracy of the IMM’s reports;

   b.     The Market Monitoring Liaison Officer shall not:

          i.     Have authority to impose penalty charges;

          ii.    Screen, alter, delete, or delay IMM investigations or the preparation of findings,

                 conclusions, and recommendations developed by the IMM; or

          iii.   Share or discuss confidential data, information, or analysis related to any of the

                 Markets and Services.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                               52
FERC Electric Tariff       Independent Market Monitor
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              52.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Retention of the Independent Market Monitor
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall retain a person or persons, consulting firm or other entity to be

   known as the Independent Market Monitor that shall report to the Transmission Provider’s Board

   of Directors. The IMM shall have experience and expertise appropriate to the analysis of

   competitive conditions in markets for Energy, Ancillary Services, and transmission rights, and to

   such other responsibilities as are assigned to the IMM under this Plan. The IMM shall interface

   with the Market Monitoring Liaison Officer.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                         52.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                       Ethics
MODULES                                                                                                    31.0.0


   The IMM, including each member, employee, or subcontractor of the IMM, shall comply at all

   times with the conflicts of interest and ethics policies set forth in this Section, and shall certify

   such compliance to the Market Monitoring Liaison Officer upon request.

   The IMM and its employees:

           a.      must have no material affiliation with any Market Participant or affiliate.

           b.      must not serve as an officer, employee, or partner of a Market Participant;

           c.      must have no material financial interest in any Market Participant or affiliate

                   except for mutual funds and non-directed investments;

           d.      must not engage in any market transactions other than the performance of the

                   duties of the IMM under the Tariff;

           e.      must not be compensated, other than by the Transmission Provider, for any expert

                   witness testimony or other commercial services provided on behalf of the

                   Transmission Provider or any other party, in connection with any legal or

                   regulatory proceeding or commercial transaction relating directly to the

                   Transmission Provider or to its markets;

           f.      may not accept anything of value from a Market Participant in excess of a de

                   minimis amount;

           g.      must advise the Market Monitoring Liaison Officer in the event the IMM or any

                   of its employees seek employment with a Market Participant, and must disqualify

                   themselves from participating in any matter that would have an effect on the

                   financial interest of the Market Participant,




                                                                           Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                  52.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                Ethics
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


          h.     shall conform, as applicable, to the standards of conduct and other policies for

                 independent contractors performing services for the Transmission Provider that

                 may be adopted from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Transmission

                 Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                 52.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Core Functions and Responsibilities of the IMM
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


   a.     The IMM shall:

          i.     Evaluate existing and proposed market rules, Tariff provisions and market design

                 elements and recommend proposed rule and Tariff changes to the Transmission

                 Provider, the FERC’s Office of Energy Market Regulation staff and to other

                 interested entities, such as affected state regulatory commissions and Market

                 Participants, provided that: (i) the IMM shall not effectuate its proposed market

                 design itself, and (ii) the IMM shall limit distribution of its identifications and

                 recommendations to the Transmission Provider and to FERC staff in the event the

                 IMM believes broader dissemination could lead to exploitation, with an

                 explanation of why further dissemination should be avoided at that time;

          ii.    Review and report on the performance of the Markets to the Transmission

                 Provider, FERC, and other interested entities, such as affected state regulatory

                 commissions and Market Participants, on at least a quarterly basis and submit a

                 more comprehensive annual state of the market report as set forth in Section 57.1

                 of the Tariff;

          iii.   Identify, and notify the FERC Office of Enforcement, Office of Energy Markets

                 and Reliability, the Commission General Counsel’s Office, or other successor

                 organization(s), of instances in which a Market Participant's behavior, or that of

                 the Transmission Provider, may require investigation, including suspected

                 violations of FERC-approved orders, rules and regulations, suspected market

                 manipulations, and inappropriate dispatch that creates substantial concerns

                 regarding unnecessary market inefficiencies.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                52.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Core Functions and Responsibilities of the IMM
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


          iv.    Assist in the development of this Plan, including the screens and indices described

                 in Section 55 of the Tariff;

          v.     Recommend to the Transmission Provider modifications to market rules or tariffs

                 to improve the compatibility of, and the efficiency of trading between, the

                 Transmission Provider and adjacent RTOs or Balancing Authorities; and

          vi.    Have such other duties and responsibilities as specified in this Plan, as it may be

                 amended from time to time.

   b.     On a quarterly basis, the IMM shall provide to the Board, the Commission and other

          interested parties, such as state commissions, a thorough review of the Transmission

          Provider’s use of developed and installed mitigation software that is used prospectively,

          as the Commission defines the term. The IMM’s review should identify any instances

          where the Transmission Provider may have misapplied mitigation methods or where the

          Transmission Provider’s management may have overridden procedures embedded in the

          mitigation software used in real time market operation and recommend improvements in

          software mitigation and practice. In order for the IMM to make such a report, the

          Transmission Provider must maintain and provide sufficient detailed records and logs and

          make them available to the IMM.

   c.     The IMM may, at any time, bring any matter to the attention of the Transmission

          Provider, Interested Government Agencies, or appropriate federal or state antitrust

          enforcement agencies as the IMM may deem necessary or appropriate for achieving the

          purposes, objectives and effective implementation of this Plan.

   d.     The IMM shall not have the authority to impose penalty charges.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                              53
FERC Electric Tariff   Monitoring Implementation and Responsibilities
MODULES                                                      30.0.0




                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               53.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Conditions, Functions or Actions Monitored
MODULES                                                                                          41.0.0


   The IMM will achieve the purposes and objectives of this Plan through review and analysis of

   conditions, functions or actions affecting the competitiveness, economic efficiency and proper

   operation of the Markets and Services, including but not limited to, the following to the extent

   each may be deemed relevant to the purposes and objectives of this Plan by the IMM:

          a.      The schedules and Offers submitted for and actual dispatch of Generation

                  Resources, Intermittent Resources, Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, Demand

                  Resources, BTMG, Demand Response Resource – Type I, Demand Response

                  Resource – Type II, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, and Electric

                  Storage Resource, in or affecting any of the Markets and Services.

          b.      Conduct affecting the Planning Resource Auction, including, but not limited to,

                  economic withholding of ZRC Offers and/or physical withholding of ZRC Offers

                  into the PRA;

          c.      The provision of Transmission Services and rights by the Transmission Provider,

                  including but not limited to estimating and posting of Available Transfer

                  Capability (“ATC”), administration of the Tariff, the operation and maintenance

                  of the Transmission System, the auctions and other markets for transmission

                  rights, and the reservation and scheduling of Transmission Service;

          d.      Other information relating to collusive or other anticompetitive or inefficient

                  behavior in or affecting any of the Markets and Services;

          e.      Competitive or other market impacts of tariffs and agreements, or other rules,

                  standards or procedures, or any other Transmission Provider or Market Participant

                  actions governing or affecting any of the Markets and Services;




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             53.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                       Conditions, Functions or Actions Monitored
MODULES                                                                                        41.0.0


          f.     The nature and extent, causes of, and costs of and charges for transmission

                 congestion in the Transmission Provider Region or, to the extent practicable,

                 transmission congestion on any other system that affects any of the Markets and

                 Services;

          g.     The need for and efficacy of appropriate penalty charges or other corrective

                 actions to be submitted to and approved by FERC to address: a) competitive

                 problems, b) violations or failures to comply with any tariff or services agreement

                 that have material effects on the Markets and Services, or c) market flaws;

          h.     The conduct of the MISO Balancing Authority, Local Balancing Authorities or

                 Electric Distribution Companies, including a) affiliate favoritism or preference, b)

                 operating in an unduly discriminatory manner, or c) anti-competitive behavior

                 that could result in harmful market impacts to Transmission Provider customers;

                 and;

          i.     To the extent practicable, conditions or events outside the MISO Balancing

                 Authority Area affecting the supply and demand for, and the quantity and price

                 of, products or services sold or to be sold in any of the markets administered,

                 coordinated, or facilitated by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             53.1A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Auditing for Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                          37.0.0


   In order to prevent and/or discern the exercise of market power by Electric Storage Resources,

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources and certain Generation Resources, the IMM shall

   audit Generator Forced Outages, Generator Planned Outages, and Generator deratings; changes

   in physical offer parameters which reduce resource availability including, but not limited to,

   changes in Ramp Rates, Hourly Emergency Minimum Limits, Hourly Economic Minimum

   Limits, Hourly Economic Maximum Limits, Forecast Maximum Limits, and Hourly Emergency

   Maximum Limits, as well as changes to time-based Offer parameters, including, but not limited

   to, changes to Start Up Times, Minimum Run Times, and Minimum Down Times, Planning

   Resource designations; and other changes in offer parameters that the IMM reasonably believes

   may have the potential to reduce the available supply and raise the prices for Energy, Ancillary

   Services or Capacity. The IMM may request data during an audit from Market Participants or

   other entities as provided in Section 61.1 of the Tariff. Any such conduct shall be subject to the

   mitigation measures and reporting requirements set forth below in this Module D of the Tariff.

   The thresholds to be employed in monitoring for physical withholding are provided in Section

   64.1.1.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               53.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Legal Advice
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   The IMM may consult legal counsel for advice on antitrust, regulatory or other legal issues

   pertinent to this Plan.




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                        53.3
FERC Electric Tariff   Protocols for Referrals to the Commission
MODULES                                                   30.0.0




                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             53.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                               Protocol for Referral of Suspected Market Violations
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   a.     The IMM shall refer suspected Market Violations to the Commission in accordance with

          the “Protocols on Market Monitoring Unit referrals to the Commission of suspected

          violations,” 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(3)(iv), or a successor document. In this Section, the

          term “Market Violation” shall be as defined at 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(b)(8).

   b.     Conduct of the Local Balancing Authority Area Operators identified in Section 53.1.h

          will be referred to the Commission when it has a substantial effect on the market

          outcomes, defined as an effect of more than $10 per MWh on LMP prices or results in

          equitable distribution of costs for a day of more than $10 per MWh within a Local

          Balancing Authority Area or more than $10 per MW/hour on MCP Prices. The IMM will

          refer all instances of affiliate favoritism or discriminatory Local Balancing Authority

          Areas operations to the Commission using procedures as provided in Section 53.3.1a of

          the Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2020
MISO                                                                                           53.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                          Protocol for Referral of Perceived Market Design Flaws
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   IMM shall refer perceived market design flaws and recommended Tariff changes in accordance

   with the “Protocols on Market Monitoring Unit Referrals to the Commission of Perceived

   Market Design Flaws and Recommended Tariff Changes,” 18 C.F.R. § 35.28(g)(3)(v), or a

   successor document.




                                                                   Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                           54
FERC Electric Tariff   Data Access, Collection, Retention and Information Sharing
MODULES                                                                    30.0.0




                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              54.1
FERC Electric Tariff                            Access to Transmission Provider's Data and Information
MODULES                                                                                         40.0.0


   For purposes of carrying out its responsibilities under this Plan, the IMM shall have access to

   data or other information gathered or generated by the Transmission Provider in the course of its

   operations and shall have access to the resources and personnel of the Transmission Provider to

   enable the IMM to carry out its functions. This data and information shall include, but not be

   limited to:

          a.      Hourly schedules, Offers, and actual output for the Generation Resources,

                  Demand Response Resource - Type I, Demand Response Resource - Type II,

                  Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources and Electric Storage Resource within

                  the Transmission Provider Region (including designated Network Resources

                  outside the Transmission Provider Region) and external Imports to and Exports

                  from the Transmission Provider Region;

          b.      Resource Adequacy Requirement Bids and Zonal Resource Offers, Resource

                  Plans, and bilateral Capacity contract information.

          c.      Reserved and scheduled Transmission Service into, out of, or through the

                  Transmission System;

          d.      Transmission limits (including temporary deratings) on each of the monitored

                  flowgates or other relevant transmission facilities;

          e.      Hourly flow over each of the monitored flowgates or other relevant transmission

                  facilities;

          f.      Dispatch of generation for Energy, Regulation, and frequency or other operational

                  orders, including the MISO Balancing Authority or other information pertaining

                  to such dispatch;




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               54.1
FERC Electric Tariff                             Access to Transmission Provider's Data and Information
MODULES                                                                                          40.0.0


          g.      Redispatch of generation or other actions taken to manage transmission

                  congestion, including redispatch of a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource by

                  an Electric Distribution Company to manage distribution system congestion;

          h.      Logs of Transmission Service requests, including the disposition of the request

                  and the explanation for any refused, retracted or annulled requests;

          i.      Logs of generator interconnection requests, including the disposition of the

                  request and the explanation of any refused requests;

          j.      Generation, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource and transmission facility

                  outage data;

          k.      Records of complaints by customers of the Transmission Provider;

          l.      Logs of operator actions, determinations, or communications with Market

                  Participants;

          m.      Operating procedures and training materials; and

          n.      Other information required to be provided to the Transmission Provider under the

                  Transmission Provider’s Tariff, operating agreements, Applicable Reliability

                  Standard requirements, or government agency orders.

   Any data created by the IMM, including, but not limited to, compilations or modifications of the

   Transmission Provider’s data, will be kept within the exclusive control of the IMM. The IMM,

   in its sole discretion, may share such data subject to pertinent confidentiality requirements.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                               54.2
FERC Electric Tariff      Data from Market Participants
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               54.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Data Requests
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   If the IMM determines that additional data or other information is required to accomplish the

   objectives of the Plan, the IMM may request the persons or entities possessing, having access to,

   or having the ability to generate or produce such data or other information to furnish it to the

   IMM. Any such request shall be accompanied by an explanation of the need for such data or

   other information, a specification of the form or format in which the data is to be produced, and

   an acknowledgment of the obligation of the IMM to maintain the confidentiality of the data.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                              54.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Enforcement of Data Requests
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   a.     A party receiving an information request from the IMM shall furnish all information, in

          the requested form or format, that is: (i) included in the categories of data or information

          that it may request from a Market Participant to support an active investigation, as

          specified in Section 61; or (ii) reasonably necessary to achieve the purposes or objectives

          of this Plan, not readily available from some other source that is more convenient, less

          burdensome and less expensive, and not subject to a legal privilege.

   b.     The categories of data or information specified in Section 61 that may be routinely

          requested shall be limited to data or information the routine provision of which would not

          be unduly burdensome or unduly expensive, and which has been reasonably determined

          by the IMM to be relevant to the purposes and objectives of this Plan. No party that is

          the subject of a data request shall be required to produce any summaries, analyses, or

          reports of the data that do not exist at the time of the data request. The IMM shall notify

          the Market Participants and other interested parties, and provide an opportunity for

          comment, prior to adding or deleting any categories of data or information to or from

          Section 61.

   c.     A party receiving a request for data or information, consistent with Section 61, shall

          promptly provide it to the IMM, and may not contest the right of the IMM to obtain such

          data or information except to the extent that the Party has a good faith basis to assert that

          the data or information is not included in any of the categories on the list. If the IMM

          determines that the requested information has not or will not be provided within a

          reasonable time, the IMM may invoke the Transmission Provider’s dispute resolution

          provisions set forth in Section 12 of the Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                            54.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Enforcement of Data Requests
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   d.     The Party from whom the information has been requested may invoke the Transmission

          Provider’s dispute resolution provisions, if applicable, to determine the IMM’s right to

          obtain requested information not contained on the foregoing list.

   e.     The Parties may submit any such determination to binding arbitration, or other form of

          binding resolution, and shall seek expedited resolution, in accordance with the applicable

          dispute resolution procedures. Alternatively, any such Party may contest the request with

          the FERC. If the entity from whom the data or other information has been requested is

          not subject to either of the foregoing dispute resolution procedures and does not

          voluntarily agree to the use of either or a comparable dispute resolution procedure, or has

          not contested the request with the FERC, the Transmission Provider or the IMM may

          initiate such judicial or regulatory proceedings to compel the production of the requested

          information as may be available and deemed appropriate by the IMM.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                              54.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Access to Data by Interested Government Agencies
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   a.     Access by FERC. Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary, if the Commission or

          its staff, during the course of an investigation or otherwise, requests information from the

          IMM that is otherwise required to be maintained in confidence pursuant to the Tariff, the

          IMM shall provide the requested information to the Commission or its staff, within the

          time provided for in the request for information. Should the IMM require additional time

          to provide the information requested due to logistical matters such as the volume of

          information requested or technical complexity involved, the IMM will promptly

          communicate that need to the individual requesting the information and they shall

          establish the time for production of the requested information. In providing the

          information to the Commission, or its staff, the IMM shall, consistent with 18 C.F.R. §

          388.112, request that the information be treated as confidential and non-public by the

          Commission and its staff and that the information be withheld from public disclosure.

          The IMM shall promptly notify the entity that provided the requested information when it

          is notified by the Commission or its staff, that a request for disclosure of, or decision to

          disclose, Confidential Information has been received.

   b.     Tailored Requests for Information from Authorized Agencies. The IMM will entertain

          tailored requests for information from Authorized Agencies regarding general market

          trends and the performance of the markets, excluding any information designed to aid

          state enforcement actions. Granting or refusing such requests shall be at the IMM’s

          discretion based on time and resource availability. The IMM shall entertain requests

          from Authorized Agencies in accordance with Section 38.9.4 and Attachment EE of the

          Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                54.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Confidentiality
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The IMM shall use all reasonable procedures necessary to protect and preserve the

   confidentiality of all Confidential Information obtained in connection with the implementation of

   this Plan.



   Except as may be required by subpoena or other compulsory process, the IMM shall not disclose

   Confidential Information to any person or entity without prior written consent of the affected

   parties, provided, however, that third parties requesting disclosure of information designated as

   “Confidential Information” may challenge the designation pursuant to procedures specified in

   the Business Practices Manuals. Upon receipt of a subpoena or other compulsory process for the

   disclosure of Confidential Information, the IMM shall promptly notify the party that provided the

   data and shall provide all reasonable assistance requested by the party to prevent disclosure, and

   if possible under the terms of the subpoena or other compulsory process shall not release the data

   until the party provides written consent or until the party’s legal avenues are exhausted. The

   confidentiality of data and information provided to Interested Government Agencies will be

   maintained with a protective order or other procedures of the agency for protecting confidential

   data.



   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the IMM from sharing with the market monitoring unit

   of another Regional Transmission Organization (“RTO”), or Independent System Operator

   (“ISO”), upon their request, the electronic tag (“e-Tag”) data of an e-Tag Author or Balancing

   Authority (defined as those terms are used in FERC Order No. 771) for intra-region transactions

   and interchange transactions scheduled to flow into, out of or through the Transmission

   Provider’s Region, to the extent such market monitoring unit has requested such information as



                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  54.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Confidentiality
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   part of its investigation of possible market violations or market design flaws, to the extent that

   such market monitoring unit is bound by a tariff provision requiring that the e-Tag data be

   maintained as confidential, or in the absence of a tariff requirement governing confidentiality, a

   written agreement with the IMM consistent with FERC Order No. 771, and any clarifying orders

   and implementing regulations.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                54.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Collection and Retention of Information
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   a.     The IMM shall regularly collect and maintain the information necessary for

          implementing this Plan. The IMM, in conformity with the Transmission Provider’s

          applicable data retention policies, shall adopt schedules for the periodic destruction of

          information in the possession of the IMM the retention of which is no longer reasonably

          necessary for purposes of this Plan. The IMM or Transmission Provider shall ensure that

          data and information necessary for use by any subsequent IMM shall be retained in

          usable form.

   b.     The IMM shall adopt policies and requirements for the retention of information by

          Market Participants, and submission of such information to the IMM as necessary for the

          implementation of this Plan, after providing an opportunity for interested parties and the

          Market Monitoring Liaison Officer to review and comment on such procedures.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                55
FERC Electric Tariff   Performance Indices and Screens
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             55.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Development of Indices and Screens
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   The IMM, with due consideration of the proposals and comments of Market Participants and

   other interested parties submitted as specified below, and subject to review and comment by the

   Transmission Provider, shall develop and adopt such indices or other screens for reviewing the

   data or other information as the IMM deems appropriate.




                                                                     Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                55.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Consultation with Market Participants
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


   In connection with the development of indices and screens as specified in Section 55.1, Market

   Participants, Interested Government Agencies, or other interested parties may submit proposed

   indices or screens for review of the data or other information collected in connection with the

   implementation of this Plan, along with any justification for the adoption thereof, to the IMM for

   consideration and adoption if and to the extent appropriate. The IMM shall provide Market

   Participants, Interested Government Agencies, and other interested parties the opportunity to

   comment on any replacement or changes to indices and screens specified in the Tariff or in

   Business Practices Manuals prior to their adoption.




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2020
MISO                                                                                             55.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Use of Indices and Screens
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   To the extent practicable, the IMM shall review data or other information collected in connection

   with implementation of this Plan in accordance with the indices or screens adopted as specified

   above; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the IMM from

   conducting such further or different review or evaluation of such data or information as

   appropriate for the effective implementation of this Plan.




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                           56
FERC Electric Tariff   Complaints and Requests for Investigations
MODULES                                                    30.0.0




                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             56.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Requests from Interested Government Agencies
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   Any Interested Government Agency may, at any time, submit information to the IMM

   concerning any matter relevant to the responsibilities of the IMM under the Plan, or may submit

   a request to the IMM for it to conduct an investigation. Such submissions or requests may be

   made on a confidential basis. Acting in a timely manner, the IMM shall carry out the requested

   investigation to the extent deemed reasonably necessary by the IMM. Subject to redaction or

   other measures necessary for the protection of Confidential Information, the IMM shall report

   the results of these investigations to the Transmission Provider, the agency requesting the

   investigation, and as appropriate to the FERC and other Interested Government Agencies.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                            56.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Requests from Others
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   Any Market Participant or other interested person or entity may at any time submit information

   to the IMM concerning any matter relevant to the responsibilities of the IMM under the Plan, or

   may submit a request to the IMM for it to conduct an investigation. Such submissions or

   requests may be made on a confidential basis. The IMM may request further relevant

   information available from such Market Participant or other person or entity as a condition of

   undertaking any further investigation. Acting in a timely manner, the IMM shall, in its

   independent judgment, decide whether to undertake an investigation, in the manner that it deems

   appropriate, or decline to do so.




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                              56.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Reporting of Complaints and Requests
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   The IMM shall include a summary of its actions or decisions not to act in its annual report as

   well as in any other periodic or other reports on any matters within its purview as may be

   requested by the Transmission Provider’s Board of Directors or any of the Interested

   Government Agencies.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                               57
FERC Electric Tariff                          Reports
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            57.1
FERC Electric Tariff                      Quarterly and Annual Reports And Periodic Conference Calls
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   a.     The IMM shall review and report on the performance of the wholesale markets to the

          Transmission Provider’s Board of Directors, the Commission and other interested

          entities, such as state regulatory commissions and market participants, on at least a

          quarterly basis. Copies of these reports shall be forwarded by the IMM to each of the

          Interested Government Agencies. The quarterly reports shall be made publicly available

          by the Transmission Provider by posting on its website.

   b.     The IMM shall also prepare and submit to the Transmission Provider’s Board of

          Directors a more detailed state of the market report on market trends and the competitive

          performance and efficiency of the Markets and Services. Such report shall be submitted

          at least annually and include any recommendations of the IMM for the improvement of

          the Markets and Services, or of the monitoring, reporting and other functions undertaken

          pursuant to this Plan. A copy of the annual report shall be forwarded by the IMM to each

          of the Interested Government Agencies. The annual report shall be made publicly

          available by the Transmission Provider by posting on its website.

   c.     The IMM shall make one or more of its personnel available for regular conference calls,

          which may be attended, telephonically or in person, by the Commission and Authorized

          Agencies’ staff, by representatives of the Transmission Provider, and by Market

          Participants, subject to appropriate measures for the protection of Protected Information.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                57.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Other Reports or Filings
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   The IMM shall prepare such other periodic or other reports on any matters within its purview as

   may be requested by the Transmission Provider’s Board of Directors or any of the Interested

   Government Agencies. The IMM shall also prepare other reports that it deems necessary, unless

   the Board of Directors or the Interested Government Agency requesting such report specifies to

   the contrary. Copies of such reports shall be made publicly available by the Transmission

   Provider, subject to redaction or other measures necessary for the protection of Confidential

   Information. All reasonable fees and expenses for the preparation of reports or other filings

   relating to the Markets and Services that are requested by an Interested Government Agency

   from the incumbent IMM, or from a former IMM with respect to conditions or conduct occurring

   in the period during which the entity receiving the request served as the IMM, shall be borne by

   the Transmission Provider.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                      57.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission Provider Response to Reports
MODULES                                                   31.0.0




                                     Effective On: May 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                             57.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                        Transmission Provider Response to Reports
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall respond to each recommendation in any report by the IMM per

   Sections 57.1 and 57.2, within one hundred and twenty (120) days from the date of the IMM

   report. The Transmission Provider and the IMM may reasonably agree on a longer period for

   responding on a case by case basis. The response shall clearly state and explain the

   Transmission Provider’s agreement or disagreement with each recommendation. The

   Transmission Provider’s response will be given the same distribution as the IMM report.




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                       58
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                 Liability
MODULES                                                                                                31.0.0


   The liability of the Transmission Provider, and its directors, officers, employees and agents, and

   of the IMM, and its directors, officers, employees and agents, for any matter arising under or

   relating to this Plan shall be governed by this Section. The Transmission Provider, and its

   directors, officers, employees and agents, and the IMM, and its directors, officers, employees

   and agents, shall not be liable to any person or entity for any matter, act or omission described in

   or contemplated by this Plan, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time,

   including but not limited to liability for any financial loss, loss of economic advantage,

   opportunity cost, or actual, direct, indirect or consequential damages of any kind resulting from

   or attributable to any act or omission of the Transmission Provider or the IMM under this Plan

   unless the foregoing persons or organizations are found to have engaged in gross negligence or

   willful misconduct by a court of competent jurisdiction.



   The Transmission Provider shall indemnify and hold harmless its directors, officers, employees

   and agents and the IMM, its directors, officers, employees and agents, of and from any and all

   actions, claims, demands, costs (including any form of damages or other economic loss and all

   court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees) and liabilities to third parties, arising from or in any

   way connected with, the implementation or a failure to implement this Plan, except to the extent

   that such action, claim, demand, cost or liability results from the gross negligence or willful

   misconduct of any of the foregoing persons.




                                                                          Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                    59
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Rights and Remedies
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   a.     With the exception of the limitation of liability specified in Section 58 of the Tariff,

          nothing herein shall prevent the Transmission Provider or any other person or entity from

          asserting any rights it may have under the Federal Power Act or any other applicable law,

          statute, or regulation, including the filing of a petition with or otherwise initiating a

          proceeding before the FERC regarding any matter which is the subject of this Plan.

   b.     Except as and to the extent otherwise specified in this Plan, including the provisions of

          Section 59.a, disputes as to the implementation of or compliance with this Plan shall be

          subject to the Transmission Provider’s dispute resolution procedures contained in Section

          12 of the Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                               60
FERC Electric Tariff                         Reserved
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                 61
FERC Electric Tariff   List of Data the IMM May Request
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     61.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                    Data
MODULES                                                                                                43.0.0


   The following data or information may be obtained by the IMM from Market Participants,

   Transmission Owners, or the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 54.2 of the

   Tariff. Market Participants, Transmission Owners, or the Transmission Provider shall retain the

   following categories of data or information for at least two years, beginning with the date of

   initial operation.

           a.      Production costs: Data or information relating to the costs of operating a

                   specified Electric Facility or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource (for

                   Generation Resources such data or information shall include, heat rates, start-up

                   fuel requirements, fuel purchase costs, environmental costs, and operating and

                   maintenance expenses). Data or information relating to direct and/or indirect

                   costs of reducing consumption of electricity by a Demand Response or

                   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource.

           b.      Opportunity costs: Data or information relating to regulatory, environmental,

                   technical, or other restrictions that limit the run-time or other operating

                   characteristics of a Generation Resource. Data or information relating to

                   regulatory, environmental, technical, or other restrictions that limit the availability

                   or other operating characteristics of a Demand Response Resource-Type I,

                   Demand Response Resource-Type II, and Distributed Energy Aggregated

                   Resource. Data or information related to the opportunity to sell Capacity

                   bilaterally or exporting Capacity to other markets.




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                   61.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                  Data
MODULES                                                                                              43.0.0


          c.     Going-Forward Costs: Data or information related to the costs of keeping a

                 Planning Resource in operation or returning a Planning Resource from a Suspend

                 status.

          d.     Operating Logs: Data or information relating to the operating status of a

                 generating facility, including an Electric Storage Resource or Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resource, including logs showing the status of a specified resource.

                 Such data or information shall include any information relating to a forced outage

                 or derating of a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or Generation Resource,

                 including an Electric Storage Resource.

          e.     Transmission Logs: Data or information relating to the operating status of a

                 transmission facility, the calculation of the facility ratings, a contingency, or other

                 operating consideration. This shall include data or information related to any

                 Generation Resources called out-of-merit or dispatched under any other operating

                 order from the Transmission Provider.

          f.     LSE Forecasted Demand: Data or information relating to LSEs’ forecasted

                 Demand.

          g.     Bidding Agreements: Data or information relating to the ability of a Market

                 Participant or its Affiliate to determine the pricing or output level of generating or

                 storage capacity owned by another entity, including but not limited to any

                 document setting forth the terms or conditions of such ability.

          h.     Demand Response Resource-Type I, Demand Response Resource Type II, and

                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource information: Data or information




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                  61.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                 Data
MODULES                                                                                             43.0.0


                 related to the capability of a Demand Response Resource or Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resource to inject or reduce its consumption of electricity, or related

                 to actual injections or reductions in consumption of electricity achieved during

                 specific events.

          i.     Physical operating parameters: Data or information relating to the operating

                 characteristics of a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or Generation

                 Resource, including an Electric Storage Resource, including but not limited to:

                 ramp rates, emergency limits, minimum run times, start times, and other temporal

                 or operating parameters associated with a specified Distributed Energy

                 Aggregated Resource or Electric Facility including, but not limited to, the

                 underlying assumptions, design criteria, and methods used to determine

                 Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or Electric Facility ratings.

          j.     Planning Resources: Data or information relating to bilateral Capacity sales or

                 Capacity exports, and data associated with capacity accreditation, including but

                 not limited to GVTC data, generation availability data, NERC Generation

                 Availability Data System (GADS) information, and data associated with

                 demonstrating deliverability.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                61.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Local Balancing Authority Data
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   For purposes of carrying out its responsibilities under Module D, the IMM may also obtain from

   the Local Balancing Authorities, and/or from their delegates, any written and/or recorded phone

   logs with Transmission Operators and adjacent Balancing Authorities relating to the performance

   of the responsibilities and tasks assigned or otherwise allocated to the Local Balancing

   Authorities pursuant to the Amended Balancing Authority Agreement, to the extent that such

   data or information is not available from the Transmission Provider.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                               III
FERC Electric Tariff       Market Mitigation Measures
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   62
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Purpose and Objectives
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   a.     These market power Mitigation Measures are intended to provide the means for the

          Transmission Provider to mitigate the market effects of any conduct that would

          substantially distort competitive outcomes in the Markets and Services administered by

          the Transmission Provider, while avoiding unnecessary interference with competitive

          price signals.

   b.     These Mitigation Measures are intended to minimize interference with open and

          competitive markets. To that end, the Mitigation Measures authorize the mitigation of

          specific conduct only when the conduct exceeds well-defined conduct thresholds and

          when the effect on market outcomes of the conduct exceeds well-defined market impact

          thresholds. Using these thresholds, the Mitigation Measures are designed to allow prices

          to rise efficiently to reflect legitimate supply shortages while effectively mitigating

          inflated prices associated with artificial supply shortages in transmission constrained

          areas resulting from physical or economic withholding.

   c.     As set forth in Part III of Module D, the Transmission Provider shall apply all Mitigation

          Measures that can affect market outcomes on a going-forward basis. All other Mitigation

          Measures may be applied by either the IMM or Transmission Provider, as set forth in the

          Tariff. In addition, the IMM shall monitor the Markets and Services administered by the

          Transmission Provider for conduct that may distort competitive market outcomes, but

          does not trigger the thresholds specified below for the imposition of Mitigation Measures.

          If the IMM identifies any such conduct, the Transmission Provider shall make a filing

          under § 205 of the Federal Power Act, 16 U.S.C. § 824d (1999) (“§ 205”) with the

          Commission requesting authorization to apply appropriate Mitigation Measures. Any




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                                 62
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Purpose and Objectives
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


          such filing shall identify the particular conduct the IMM believes warrants mitigation,

          shall propose a specific Mitigation Measure for the conduct, and shall set forth the

          justification for that Mitigation Measure.

   d.     The IMM shall monitor the actions of the Transmission Provider to identify any actions

          that substantially distort competitive outcomes in the Markets and Services administered

          by the Transmission Provider. If such actions are identified, the IMM shall recommend

          changes in these actions and, as necessary, to Transmission Provider’s market rules or

          procedures.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                63
FERC Electric Tariff     Conduct Warranting Mitigation
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                63.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Conduct Subject to Mitigation
MODULES                                                                                           33.0.0


   Mitigation Measures may be applied: (i) to the Offers, scheduling or operation of a Distributed

   Energy Aggregated Resource, or an Electric Facility; or (ii) as specified in Section 65.3.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              63.2
FERC Electric Tariff                              Conditions for the Imposition of Mitigation Measures
MODULES                                                                                         39.0.0


   a.     To achieve the foregoing purpose and objectives, the Transmission Provider shall impose

          Mitigation Measures to remedy conduct that:

          i.     is significantly inconsistent with competitive conduct, as set forth in Section 64.1;

                 and

          ii.    would result in a substantial change in one (1) or more prices in any Market

                 administered by the Transmission Provider, or Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue

                 Sufficiency Guarantee Credits, as set forth in Section 64.2.

   b.     The categories of conduct that are inconsistent with competitive conduct include the

          categories of conduct specified in Section 63.3 below. In general, the Transmission

          Provider shall consider a Market Participant's conduct for a given Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource or Electric Facility to be inconsistent with competitive conduct if

          the conduct would (i) reduce the net revenue associated with the Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource or Electric Facility, but for the effect of the conduct on market

          outcomes, or (ii) inefficiently reduce the capability of the Transmission System. The

          Mitigation Measures will only apply in the presence of a Binding Transmission

          Constraint, a binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraint (other than a Sub-Regional

          Power Balance Constraint), or a binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint, or

          where there is a VLR Commitment. Binding Transmission Constraints shall include

          constraints in adjacent areas that are monitored by the Transmission Provider and affect

          the dispatch or commitment of Electric Facilities in the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             63.2
FERC Electric Tariff                             Conditions for the Imposition of Mitigation Measures
MODULES                                                                                        39.0.0


   c.     Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Module D, mitigation shall not be applied

          when a Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint binds from the Second Planning Area

          into the First Planning Area.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              63.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Categories of Conduct that May Warrant Mitigation
MODULES                                                                                         57.0.0


   a.     The following categories of conduct, whether by a single firm or by multiple firms, may

          warrant mitigation:

          i.      Physical withholding, that is, not offering to sell or schedule the output of or

                 services provided by an Electric Facility (including a Demand Response Resource

                 or Planning Resource other than a Demand Resource, Behind the Meter

                 Generation Resources less than or equal to ten (10) MW GVTC that are registered

                 as a Load Modifying Resources or External Resource) capable of serving the

                 Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, Planning Resource Auction, or any other

                 market administered by the Transmission Provider. Such withholding may

                 include: (i) declaring that an Electric Facility has been derated, forced out of

                 service or otherwise become unavailable for technical reasons that are not true or

                 cannot be verified;(ii) refusing to provide Offers or schedules for an Electric

                 Facility;(iii) operating a Generation Resource in real time to produce an output

                 level that is less than Dispatch Targets; (iv) derating a transmission facility or

                 interface for technical reasons that are not true or verifiable; (v) operating a

                 transmission facility in a manner that is not economic and causes a Binding

                 Transmission Constraint, or binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraint (other

                 than a Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint), or, in the case of the Second

                 Planning Area, a binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint; (vi) not

                 submitting ZRC Offers to the Planning Resource Auction for universally

                 deliverable Planning Resources that are not designated to satisfy the capacity

                 obligations of an LSE in MISO or exported; (vii) exporting universally




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              63.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Categories of Conduct that May Warrant Mitigation
MODULES                                                                                         57.0.0


                 deliverable Planning Resources to a Capacity market with prevailing prices less

                 than 50 percent of the Auction Clearing Price; or (viii) declaring that the

                 capability of Generation Resource to provide Energy, Operating Reserve, Short-

                 Term Reserve or Planning Resources is reduced for reasons that are not true or

                 verifiable. Market Participants will not be deemed to be physically withholding

                 an Electric Facility when they are following the directions of the MISO Balancing

                 Authority or Applicable Reliability Standards.

          ii.    Economic withholding, that is, submitting Offers for a Generation Resource, a

                 Demand Response Resource, a Planning Resource (other than a Demand

                 Resource, Behind the Meter Generation Resources less than or equal to ten (10)

                 MW GVTC that are registered as a Load Modifying Resources or External

                 Resource), or an Electric Storage Resource that violates the economic

                 withholding criteria set forth in Section 64.1.2 that cannot be justified, so that

                 (i) output cleared or scheduled from the Resource is or will be reduced, including

                 Energy, Contingency Reserves, Regulating Reserves, Short-Term Reserves, Up

                 Ramp Capability, and/or Down Ramp Capability, (ii) the Offers will clear at

                 prices significantly above competitive levels, or (iii) the Planning Resource will

                 not clear the Planning Resource Auction or the amount of Zonal Resource Credit

                 cleared is or will be reduced.

          iii.   Uneconomic production from a Generation Resource, that is, submitting Offers to

                 increase or actually increasing the output of a Generation Resource to levels that

                 would otherwise be uneconomic, and causing a Binding Transmission Constraint




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             63.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                Categories of Conduct that May Warrant Mitigation
MODULES                                                                                        57.0.0


                 or binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraint (other than a Sub-Regional

                 Power Balance Constraint), or in the case of the Second Planning Area, a binding

                 Sub- Regional Power Balance Constraint.

          iv.    Uneconomic Market Participant Bids or Virtual Transactions, that is, submitting

                 an Offer in the Day-Ahead Energy Market and Operating Reserve Market that is

                 not economically justified based on risk management or other economic

                 considerations, and that causes substantial divergence between prices in the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market and the Real-Time Energy and

                 Operating Reserve Market, as defined in Sections 65.4.2.d and 65.5.2.b.

   b.     Taking advantage of opportunities to sell at a higher price in a market other than a Market

          administered by the Transmission Provider shall not be deemed a form of withholding or

          otherwise inconsistent with competitive conduct.

   c.     The IMM shall monitor Markets and Services for other categories of conduct, whether by

          a single firm or by multiple firms, that substantially distort competitive outcomes in any

          Market administered by the Transmission Provider. The IMM shall: (i) seek to amend

          the foregoing list as may be appropriate to include any such conduct that would

          substantially distort or impair the competitiveness of any of the Markets and Services

          administered by the Transmission Provider; and (ii) seek such other authorization

          requiring the Transmission Provider to mitigate the effects of such conduct from the

          FERC as may be appropriate.

   d.     Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, any modification to the list of conduct in

          Section 63.3.3.a that may warrant mitigation, whether recommended by the IMM or




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             63.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                Categories of Conduct that May Warrant Mitigation
MODULES                                                                                        57.0.0


          derived from another source, is to be filed by the Transmission Provider with the

          Commission for approval.

   e.     Notwithstanding the thresholds listed in Sections 64.1.1, 64.1.2, and 64.1.3 for

          identifying the categories of conduct that may warrant mitigation, conduct by any

          Resource that results in Physical Withholding, Economic Withholding, or Uneconomic

          Production of less than 2 MW shall not warrant mitigation.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            63.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Defining Transmission Constrained Areas
MODULES                                                                                       34.0.0


   As described above, one of the purposes of the Mitigation Measures is to mitigate locational

   market power resulting from transmission congestion. Locational market power associated with

   transmission congestion can occur in Narrow Constrained Areas, Dynamic Narrow Constrained

   Areas, or Broad Constrained Areas.




                                                                          Effective On: January 4, 2018
MISO                                                                                         63.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Determination of Narrow Constrained Areas and Dynamic NCAs
MODULES                                                                                      50.0.0


   a.     On a yearly basis, or more frequently as the IMM deems necessary, the IMM will

          evaluate the patterns of congestion in the Transmission Provider Region to determine the

          constrained areas that should be identified as Narrow Constrained Areas in accordance

          with the following procedures.

   b.     A Narrow Constrained Area (NCA) is an electrical area identified by the IMM that is

          defined by one or more Binding Transmission Constraints, or binding Post Reserve

          Deployment Constraints (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints), or

          binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints into the Second Planning Area, that are

          expected to be binding for at least five hundred (500) hours during a given twelve (12)-

          month period and within which one (1) or more suppliers are pivotal.

   c.     A supplier is pivotal when the Energy output or provision of Contingency Reserves,

          Regulating Reserves, or Short-Term Reserves by some of its Generation Resources must

          be increased or decreased to resolve a Binding Transmission Constraint, or binding Post

          Reserve Deployment Constraint (other than a Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint),

          or a Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint into the Second Planning Area, during some

          or all hours. This will be determined utilizing transmission load flow cases or

          Transmission Provider market cases reflecting a variety of market conditions.

   d.     These load flow or market cases will be used to estimate: (i) the Generation Shift Factors

          for all Transmission Provider and relevant non-Transmission Provider Generation

          Resources relative to each potentially constrained flowgate; (ii) the capability of all

          Transmission Provider Resources to meet the requirements of each binding Post Reserve

          Deployment Constraint; (iii) the base loadings of Generation Resources; (iv) the base




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        63.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Determination of Narrow Constrained Areas and Dynamic NCAs
MODULES                                                                                     50.0.0


          allocation of Contingency Reserves, Regulating Reserves, Short-Term Reserves, Up

          Ramp Capability, and Down Ramp Capability on Generation Resources; and (v) the base

          flows on each flowgate. A supplier is pivotal when a Binding Transmission Constraint,

          or binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraint (other than a Sub-Regional Power

          Balance Constraint), or a Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint into the Second

          Planning Area cannot be relieved by changing the base loadings for other suppliers’

          Generation Resources.

   e.     Once the initial Narrow Constrained Areas are defined, the Transmission Provider may

          remove an area’s designation as a Narrow Constrained Area if the IMM determines that

          the Binding Transmission Constraint(s), or binding Post Reserve Deployment

          Constraint(s) (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints) or a Sub-Regional

          Power Balance Constraint(s) into the Second Planning Area that define the Narrow

          Constrained Area are expected to be binding for fewer than five hundred (500) hours

          during a given twelve (12)-month period.

   f.     The IMM will seek comment from the Transmission Provider’s Market Participants

          before altering or removing the designations of any area as a Narrow Constrained Area.

          Subject to any applicable confidentiality requirements, the IMM will provide any

          interested Market Participants with a description of its supporting analysis to allow

          comment on proposed designation changes.

   g.     The Transmission Provider shall obtain the prior approval of the Commission for the

          designation of any new area as a Narrow Constrained Area, and for any change or

          removal of such a designation. The Transmission Provider shall submit to the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        63.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Determination of Narrow Constrained Areas and Dynamic NCAs
MODULES                                                                                     50.0.0


          Commission the analysis supporting any such change.

   h.     To ensure the NCA designations are available to Market Participants, the Narrow

          Constrained Area designations, the associated thresholds set forth in Section 64.1.2, and

          the NCA Constraint Generation Shift Factor Cutoff for the NCA will be posted on the

          Transmission Provider’s website.

   i.     The IMM will notify the Transmission Provider of the need to establish a Dynamic

          Narrow Constrained Area in an electrical area when:

          1.     The conduct and impact tests applicable to Dynamic Narrow Constrained Areas,

                 specified in sections 63.3, 64.1.1, 64.1.2, 64.1.3, or 64.2.1 have been met by one

                 or more Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources, or Generation Resources,

                 including Electric Storage Resources, in an electrical area affecting a Binding

                 Transmission Constraint; and

          2.     The IMM determines that any Binding Transmission Constraint(s) into the

                 applicable electrical area has/have been binding for at least 15 percent of the

                 hours in a continuous 5-day period prior to the current period; or the IMM

                 identifies the initiation of an outage or re-occurring condition that previously has

                 caused a Binding Transmission Constraint during at least 15 percent of hours in a

                 continuous 5-day period;

   j.     Upon notification from the IMM, the Transmission Provider shall promptly activate the

          Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area and notify the Market Participants of the designation

          and activation of the Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area by posting a notice to the

          Transmission Provider’s website. The posted notice shall identify the Binding




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                        63.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Determination of Narrow Constrained Areas and Dynamic NCAs
MODULES                                                                                     50.0.0


          Transmission Constraint(s) into the Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area, the Generation

          Resource(s), including any Electric Storage Resource(s) in the Dynamic Narrow

          Constrained Area, as determined by the IMM, and the Generation Shift Factors used for

          such determination.

   k.     The designation of an area as a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area shall be removed

          based on the IMM’s determination of any of the following conditions:

          1.     Specific outages or other conditions causing the Binding Transmission

                 Constraint(s) defining the Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area have been resolved;

                 or

          2.     No mitigation has occurred in the prior 30 days.

          Upon determining the existence of any of the above conditions, the IMM will notify the

          Transmission Provider that the Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area should be removed.

   l.     Upon notification from the IMM that a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area should be

          removed, the Transmission Provider shall remove the Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area

          and post on its website a notice of such removal.

   m.     A Generation Shift Factor Cutoff will be specified by the IMM to identify Generation

          Resources that will be included in an NCA or Dynamic NCA. The default Generation

          Shift Factor Cutoff for all NCA and Dynamic NCA transmission constraints will be three

          percent (3%).




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             63.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Broad Constrained Areas
MODULES                                                                                          45.0.0


   a.     A Broad Constrained Area is an electrical area in which sufficient competition usually

          exists even with one or more Binding Transmission Constraints, or binding Post Reserve

          Deployment Constraints (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints), or

          binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints into the Second Planning Area, but

          within which any such constraint can result in substantial locational market power under

          certain market or operating conditions.

   b.     Broad Constrained Areas will not be identified in advance by the IMM, but will be

          monitored for and mitigated by the Transmission Provider when appropriate, utilizing the

          thresholds in Section 64.1 and Section 64.2.

   c.     All resources that significantly affect the flow over the constrained flowgate or the

          amount of Operating Reserves or Short-Term Reserves scheduled to meet a binding Post

          Reserve Deployment Constraint (other than a Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint),

          or a binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint into the Second Planning Area,

          would be tested to determine whether mitigation is warranted. A Generation Resource

          will be deemed to have a significant effect on the flowgate if the absolute value of its

          Generation Shift Factor is greater than the Constraint Generation Shift Factor Cutoff. A

          Generation Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, including an Electric

          Storage Resource, will be deemed to have a significant effect on a binding Post Reserve

          Deployment Constraint if it has the capability to provide Operating Reserve to satisfy the

          constraint.

   d.     The Constraint Generation Shift Factor Cutoff will be specified by the IMM to identify

          Generation Resources that will be included in a BCA. A default level of three percent




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                           63.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Broad Constrained Areas
MODULES                                                                                        45.0.0


          (3%) will be used as the Constraint GSF Cutoff for all flowgates, except for those

          flowgates for which the Commission has approved a different Constraint GSF Cutoff

          level.

   e.     The IMM will make all Constraint Shift Factor Cutoffs, and current and prior active

          BCAs, including associated flowgates, available to the Market Participants by posting

          them on the Transmission Provider website.

   f.     To assist the owner of a Generation Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated

          Resource in understanding whether its unit may be located within a Broad Constrained

          Area for a given flowgate, the IMM will post a representative set of Generation Shift

          Factors for the Generation Resources in the Transmission Provider Region.

   g.     Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Module D, the First Planning Area shall not

          be designated as a BCA or NCA based on a binding Sub-Regional Power Balance

          Constraint on flows from the Second Planning Area to the First Planning Area.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                          64
FERC Electric Tariff   Criteria for Imposing Mitigation Measures
MODULES                                                   30.0.0




                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              64.1
FERC Electric Tariff                            Identification of Conduct Inconsistent with Competition
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   Conduct that may potentially warrant the imposition of a Mitigation Measure includes the

   categories described in Section 63.3.a above, which shall be detected through the use of indices

   and screens developed by the IMM and made available as specified in the Plan. The thresholds

   listed in Sections 64.1.1 to 64.1.3 below shall be used to identify conduct that may warrant

   mitigation.




                                                                             Effective On: July 25, 2015
MISO                                                                                             64.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Thresholds for Identifying Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                          63.0.0


   a.     Except as specified in subsection (e) below and in Section 63.3e, the following initial

          thresholds will be employed by the IMM to identify physical withholding of a Resource,

          including a Generation Resource, or Electric Storage Resource:

          i.     Operating a unit in real-time at an output level that is less than the lower of ninety

                 percent (90%) of the Optimal Achievable Output and ten (10) MW below the

                 Optimal Achievable Output.

          ii.    Operating a unit off-control unjustifiably at an average hourly output level that is

                 less than the lower of ninety percent (90%) of the Optimal Achievable Output and

                 ten (10) MW below the Optimal Achievable Output.

          iii.   Offering a unit with a dispatch maximum that is unjustifiably less than the lower

                 of ninety percent (90%) of the Optimal Achievable Output and ten (10) MW

                 below the Optimal Achievable Output.

   b.     The amounts of generating Capacity considered withheld for purposes of applying the

          foregoing thresholds shall include deratings or outages of generating Capacity that is

          economic and is physically capable of operating, and any portions of a Generation

          Resource’s available output that is not scheduled, Offered or is economically withheld

          under the thresholds in Section 64.1.2. However, the amounts considered withheld shall

          not include any amount not scheduled or Offered reflecting any operating limitation, such

          as thermal, voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations,

          provided by the Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the

          reliability of the Transmission System, for the duration of such limitation.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            64.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Thresholds for Identifying Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                         63.0.0


   c.     The foregoing thresholds are intended to ensure that mitigation only be applied to

          significant instances of locational market power resulting from one (1) or more Binding

          Transmission Constraints or binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraints associated

          with a Broad Constrained Area.

   d.     The following threshold will be employed by the IMM to identify physical withholding

          of Planning Resources (excluding Demand Resources, Behind the Meter Generation

          Resources less than or equal to ten (10) MW GVTC that are registered as Load

          Modifying Resources and External Resources) by a Market Participant, collectively with

          any Affiliate, from the Planning Resource Auction. The withholding of more than the

          Physical Withholding Threshold Quantity of Planning Resources under the ownership or

          control of a Market Participant and any Affiliate from the Planning Resource Auction

          may result in mitigation.

          i.     The Physical Withholding Threshold Quantity for RAR will be set at fifty (50)

                 MW for each LRZ and will apply collectively to a Market Participant and any

                 Affiliate. The IMM will use reasonable efforts to contact each Affiliate one time

                 during the Planning Resource Auction offer window when the combined,

                 affiliated Market Participant offers exceed the Physical Withholding Threshold

                 Quantity to allow Market Participants to change their offers prior to the offer

                 window closing.

          ii.    The IMM may modify the Physical Withholding Threshold Quantity by a

                 Commission filing if it determines that the current threshold is not effective in




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Thresholds for Identifying Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                           63.0.0


                 mitigating suppliers’ ability to affect prices in the Planning Resource Auction, or

                 that the current threshold is unreasonably restrictive.

          iii.   The IMM will seek comment from the Market Participants before making a filing

                 to alter the Physical Withholding Threshold Quantity. Subject to any applicable

                 confidentiality requirements, the IMM will provide any interested stakeholders

                 with a description of its supporting analysis to allow comment on proposed

                 designation changes.

          iv.    The Transmission Provider shall obtain the prior approval of the Commission for

                 any change to the Physical Withholding Threshold Quantity. The Transmission

                 Provider shall submit to the Commission the analysis supporting any such change.

   e.     A transmission facility shall be deemed physically withheld if: (a) it is scheduled out of

          service for technical reasons that are not true or cannot be verified, (b) due to the actions

          of Transmission Operators, the IMM has identified a pattern of scheduling outages

          resulting in increased market costs compared to an alternative and lower cost impact

          outage schedule. If such actions are identified, the IMM shall report such findings to the

          Commission and the Transmission Provider within thirty (30) days, or (c) it is not

          operated in accordance with Transmission Provider’s Dispatch Instructions and such

          failure to conform to Transmission Provider’s Dispatch Instructions causes a Binding

          Transmission Constraint or a binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraint. A

          transmission facility shall not be deemed withheld if it is subject to a forced outage or is

          out of service for maintenance in accordance with a maintenance schedule approved by

          the Transmission Provider.




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             64.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Thresholds for Identifying Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                          63.0.0


   f.     The minimum quantity thresholds in Section 64.1.1.a shall apply to the identification of

          physical withholding by a Generation Resource, including any Electric Storage Resource

          in a Broad Constrained Area. With respect to a Narrow Constrained Area or a Dynamic

          Narrow Constrained Area, the identification of physical withholding by a Generation

          Resource, including an Electric Storage Resource shall be made when such Resource

          engages in any of the activities described in Section 64.1.1.a, without regard to any

          minimum quantity of that activity.

   g.     Market Participants with excess capacity can refuse to submit ZRC Offers into the

          Planning Resource Auction without being deemed to have engaged in Physical

          Withholding by the IMM under the following circumstances:

          i.     Market Participants that sell their capacity bilaterally for delivery in the given

                 Season of the applicable Planning Year before the Planning Resource Auction.

          ii.    Market Participants that sell their capacity bilaterally for delivery in the given

                 Season of the applicable Planning Year after the Planning Resource Auction.

          iii.   Market Participants that designate their capacity to satisfy their own capacity

                 requirements through a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan for the given Season of

                 the applicable Planning Year.

          iv.    Market Participants that export their capacity to another area at a capacity price

                 that is comparable to or higher than the expected capacity price.

          v.     Market Participants whose capacity is not economic to sell in the Transmission

                 Provider Region.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Thresholds for Identifying Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                           63.0.0


          vi.     Market Participants whose withholding would not raise prices (i.e., suppliers that

                  do not have market power).

          vii.    Market Participants that have a total amount of un-offered capacity less than the

                  stated quantity threshold in Section 64.1.1.d.i.

          viii.   Market Participants that export their capacity to another area outside of the

                  Transmission Provider Region to serve their own capacity requirements

                  associated with their load located in that area.

          ix.     Market Participants with capacity expected to be in Suspend status during the

                  relevant Season of the Planning Year that is not offered as part of the Planning

                  Resource Auction because operation of that Capacity during the relevant Season

                  of the Planning Year would be contrary to applicable law, regulation, or court or

                  agency order (such as a state regulatory order pertaining to non-operation of a

                  generator, settlement with an environmental agency, or a consent decree approved

                  by a court). Documentation of such circumstances shall be provided by the

                  Market Participant to the IMM, and the IMM shall provide a written explanation

                  of its determination to the Market Participant regarding such documentation upon

                  request.

          x.      Market Participants with capacity in Suspend status that cannot, regardless of

                  cost, be returned to operation within thirty (30) Calendar Days after the start of

                  the relevant Season of the Planning Year. Documentation of such circumstances

                  shall be provided by the Market Participant to the IMM, and the IMM shall




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            64.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Thresholds for Identifying Physical Withholding
MODULES                                                                                         63.0.0


                 provide a written explanation of its determination to the Market Participant

                 regarding such documentation upon request.

          xi.    Market Participants with capacity expected to be on outage for greater than thirty-

                 one (31) Days in a Season of the Planning Year may submit documentation of

                 such circumstances to the IMM, and the IMM shall provide a written explanation

                 upon request of its determination to the Market Participant regarding whether that

                 capacity can forego participation in the PRA without being deemed to have

                 engaged in Physical Withholding. Documentation submitted for a Generation

                 Resource must include submission of a Generator Planned Outage request. For

                 the portion of a Resource that the IMM has determined can forego participation in

                 the PRA based on full or partial outage expected to exceed thirty-one (31) Days in

                 a Season of the Planning Year, the Market Participant for a Generation Resource

                 can still offer the excluded portion of the Resource in the relevant Season in the

                 PRA, if it so chooses, up to the annual CONE value divided by the number of

                 days in the Season without needing to request a facility-specific Reference Level

                 and will not be evaluated for economic withholding in that Season.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           64.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Thresholds for Identifying Economic Withholding
MODULES                                                                                        54.0.0


   a.     The following thresholds shall be employed by the IMM to identify economic

          withholding that may warrant the mitigation of a unit’s offer in a Broad Constrained Area

          and shall be determined with respect to a Reference Level determined as specified in

          Section 64.1.4.

          i.     Energy and minimum generation Offers: A three hundred percent (300%)

                 increase or a $100 per MWh increase, whichever is lower; provided, however,

                 that Energy or minimum generation Offers (i.e., No-Load Offers plus Energy

                 Offers up to the Hourly Economic Minimum Level, or Hourly Curtailment Offers

                 plus Energy Offers up to the Targeted Demand Reduction Amount, in the case of

                 a Demand Response Resource – Type I) below $25 per MWh shall be deemed not

                 to constitute economic withholding.

          ii.    Start-up Offers: At least $200 and at least two hundred percent (200%) increase.

          iii.   Contingency Reserve Offers and Regulating Reserve Total Cost Offers:

                 A.      Transition Period. The initial conduct threshold for Contingency Reserve

                         Offers and Regulating Reserve Total Cost shall be a three hundred percent

                         (300%) increase or a $10 per MW/h increase, whichever is lower. At the

                         beginning of each quarterly period, the conduct threshold will be increased

                         by $10 per MW/h, unless the IMM finds market behavior that warrants

                         keeping the threshold constant for the next ninety (90) days, until the

                         conduct threshold reaches the limit amount specified in Section

                         64.1.2.a.iii.B. Thirty days prior to the end of each quarter during which

                         any portion of the Transmission Provider Region remains subject to a




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          64.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Thresholds for Identifying Economic Withholding
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                        conduct threshold below the limit specified in 64.1.2.a.iii.B, the IMM

                        shall file with the Commission a report indicating whether market power

                        is appropriately mitigated in the affected area. The first such report shall

                        be submitted for the quarterly period ending December 31, 2008, and on a

                        calendar quarterly basis thereafter.

                 B.     Post Transition Period. Except as otherwise provided in Section 64.1.2A a

                        three hundred percent (300%) increase or a $50 per MW/h increase,

                        whichever is lower; provided, however, that Contingency Reserve Offers

                        and Regulating Total Cost below $10 per MW/h shall be deemed not to

                        constitute economic withholding.

          iv.    Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offers: A three hundred percent (300%) increase

                 or a $25 per MW/h increase, whichever is lower; provided, however, that Offers

                 for Off-Line Short-Term Reserve below $10 per MW/h shall be deemed not to

                 constitute economic withholding.

          v.     Time-based Offer parameters: An increase of three (3) hours, or an increase of

                 six (6) hours in total for multiple time-based Offer parameters. Time-based Offer

                 parameters include, but are not limited to, Start-Up Times, Minimum Run Times

                 and Minimum Down Times.

          vi.    Offer parameters expressed in units other than time or dollars: A 100 percent

                 (100%) increase for parameters that are minimum values, or a 50 percent (50%)

                 decrease for parameters that are maximum values (including but not limited to

                 Ramp Rates and Maximum Shut Down Limits).




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          64.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Thresholds for Identifying Economic Withholding
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


   b.     The foregoing thresholds are intended to ensure that mitigation is only applied to

          significant instances of locational market power resulting from one or more Binding

          Transmission Constraints, or binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraints (other than

          Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints), or Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints

          into the Second Planning Area associated with a Broad Constrained Area.

   c.     The following thresholds shall be employed by the IMM to identify economic

          withholding that may warrant the mitigation of a unit’s offer by the Transmission

          Provider in a Narrow Constrained Area or a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area, and

          shall be determined with respect to a Reference Level determined as specified in

          Section 64.1.4.

          i.     Energy and minimum generation Offers: an increase in the Offer above the

                 applicable Reference Level by more than the threshold determined in accordance

                 with the following formulas:

                 (a) For Narrow Constrained Areas:

                 Narrow Constrained Area Threshold =           Net Annual Fixed Cost ÷

                                                               Constrained Hours

                 Where:

                 Net Annual Fixed Cost = Annual fixed costs of a new peaking generator per MW,

                 including recovery of capital costs, minus appropriate credits for net revenue the

                 new peaking generator would receive from the Markets and Services provided

                 under the Tariff and any applicable resource adequacy mechanism.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          64.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                 Thresholds for Identifying Economic Withholding
MODULES                                                                                       54.0.0


                 Constrained Hours = The total number of hours over the prior twelve (12) months

                 in which (i) a Binding Transmission Constraint has occurred on any interface into

                 the Narrow Constrained Area in which the Generation Resource is located, (ii) a

                 binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraint (other than a Sub-Regional Power

                 Balance Constraint) has occurred within the Narrow Constrained Area in which

                 the Generation Resource is located, or (iii) in the case of the Second Planning

                 Area, a binding Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraint has occurred the Narrow

                 Constrained Area in which the Generation Resource is located, but not more than

                 2000 hours.

                 (b) For Dynamic Narrow Constrained Areas:

                 Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area Threshold = $25/MWh.

          ii.    Start-up Offers: At least $50 and at least 50 percent (50%) increase.

          iii.   Time-based and other Offer parameters: thresholds stated in Sections 64.1.2.a.v

                 and 64.1.2.a.vi.

          iv.    The Transmission Provider shall post on its website the threshold values for each

                 Narrow Constrained Area.

          v.     Offers for Operating Reserves: the IMM will employ the thresholds listed in

                 Section 64.1.2.a.iii to identify economic withholding that may warrant the

                 mitigation of a unit in a Narrow Constrained Area.

          vi.    Off-Line Short-Term Reserve Offers: The IMM will employ the thresholds listed

                 in Section 64.1.2.a.iv to identify economic withholding that may warrant the

                 mitigation of a unit in a Narrow Constrained Area.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            64.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Thresholds for Identifying Economic Withholding
MODULES                                                                                         54.0.0


          vii.   When a Binding Transmission Constraint simultaneously defines both a Narrow

                 Constrained Area and a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area, the applicable

                 conduct thresholds will be the lower of the two thresholds determined under

                 sections 64.1.2.c.i.a. and 64.1.2.c.i.b.

   d.     Zonal Resource Credit Offers: the IMM will identify potential economic withholding

          that may warrant the mitigation of a Zonal Resource Credit Offer within the MISO

          Region by determining if the Offer exceeds a threshold equal to the sum of 10% of the

          applicable CONE value divided by the number of days in the Planning Year for the Local

          Resource Zone where the Zonal Resource Credit is located and the applicable Reference

          Level for the Zonal Resource Credit. If the Zonal Resource Credit Offer is associated

          with a Planning Resource that has a facility-specific Reference Level pursuant to Section

          64.1.4.f, for which the IMM shall instead use a threshold of $0/MW-day above the

          facility-specific Reference Level. This Section 64.1.2.d shall not apply to Demand

          Resources, Behind the Meter Generation Resources less than or equal to ten (10) MW

          GVTC that are registered as Load Modifying Resources or External Resources.

   e.     Economic withholding of Generation Resources needed for Voltage and Local Reliability

          Commitments may warrant mitigation of the Day Ahead or Real Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits for the duration of their commitment periods if:

          i.     The Generation Offers result in an increase in Production Cost and Operating

                 Reserve Cost of more than ten percent (10%) and more than $200 per day from

                 the applicable Reference Level Generation Offer; or




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         64.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                Thresholds for Identifying Economic Withholding
MODULES                                                                                      54.0.0


          ii.    The Resource conduct exceeds any of the thresholds in either section 64.1.3.a.i(b)

                 or Section 64.1.3.a.i(c)

   f.     Economic withholding of a Generation Resource committed in a Broad Constrained

          Area, a Narrow Constrained Area, or a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area may warrant

          mitigation of the Day Ahead or Real Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits for the

          duration of the commitment periods if:

          i.     The Generation Offer results in an increase in a Generation Resource’s

                 Production Costs and Operating Reserve Costs that exceeds the greater of twenty-

                 five dollars per MWh ($25/MWh) or twenty-five percent (25%) in Production

                 Cost and Operating Reserve Cost due to an increase in the Generation Offer from

                 the applicable Reference Level Generation Offer for a Generation Resource; or

          ii.    The Resource conduct exceeds any of the thresholds in either Section 64.1.3.a.i(b)

                 or Section 64.1.3.a.i(c).




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          64.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                Thresholds for Identifying Uneconomic Production
MODULES                                                                                       46.0.0


   a.     The following thresholds will be employed by the IMM to identify potential uneconomic

          production; Energy is produced by a Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or

          Generation Resource at a location where the hourly average LMP is less than the lesser of

          50 percent (50%) of the Resource’s incremental Energy Reference Level and the

          Resource’s incremental Energy Reference Level minus $25.

   b.     The uneconomic production identified by the tests in section 64.1.3a may warrant the

          imposition of a Mitigation Measure when it results from the following conduct:

          i      The incremental Energy Offer Price for the Resource is less than the lesser of 50

                 percent (50%) of the Resource’s incremental Energy Reference Level and the

                 Resource’s incremental Energy Reference Level minus $25; or

          ii     The Hourly Economic Minimum Limit of an Offer for a Generation Resource

                 exceeds the applicable Reference Level by more than 25 percent (25%); or

          iii.   Any of the conduct thresholds specified in Section 64.1.2.a.v and Section

                 64.1.2.a.vi are exceeded.

          iv     Producing real-time output from a Generation Resource that exceeds the greater

                 of 110 percent (110%) of the Optimal Achievable Output and ten (10) MW above

                 the Optimal Achievable Output.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                               64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                            75.0.0


   a.     Reference Levels are intended to reflect a Generation Resource’s, Planning Resource’s,

          or Electric Storage Resource’s marginal costs, including Legitimate Risks and

          opportunity costs or justifiable technical characteristics for physical Offer parameters.

          Included with Generation Resources are Demand Response Resources – Type I, Demand

          Response Resources – Type II, Dispatchable Intermittent Resources and External

          Resources that are pseudo-tied into the MISO Balancing Authority Area. The

          determination of Reference Levels for Generation Resources is supported by data

          submitted to the Operating Cost Survey. A Reference Level for each component of a

          Generation Resource’s Offer shall be calculated using one of the two methods for which

          sufficient information is available.

          i.     The lower of the mean or the median of a unit’s accepted incremental Energy

                 Offers or ancillary service offers in competitive periods over the previous 90 days

                 for similar hours or Load levels, adjusted for changes in fuel prices and capped at

                 $1,000 per MWh;

          ii.    A level determined based on information submitted by or in consultation with the

                 Market Participant submitting the Offer or Offers at issue and intended to reflect a

                 unit’s marginal costs, as supported by data submitted to the Operating Cost

                 Survey, including Legitimate Risks and opportunity costs, or justifiable technical

                 characteristics for physical Offer parameters, provided such consultation has

                 occurred prior to the occurrence of the conduct being examined except in the case

                 of a restoration event in accordance with Schedule 52. Such consultation may be

                 initiated by either the IMM or the Market Participant. The data submitted and




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                               64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                            75.0.0


                 collected through an Operating Cost Survey includes but is not limited to:

                       •   Startup costs

                       •   No-load costs

                       •   Dispatch costs including fuel, operations, and maintenance and emissions

                           costs

                       •   Operating limits including ramp rates

                       •   Time based parameters such as start times

                       •   Fuel sources

                       •   Operating risk and reliability parameters

                       •   Energy limitations

                       •   Opportunity costs associated with demand resource reductions

                 a. Cost Verification of Incremental Energy Offers of Resources Above

                       Energy Offer Soft Price Cap. When a Market Participant’s planned or

                       submitted incremental Energy Offer exceeds the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap,

                       the Market Participant should request the Independent Market Monitor to

                       verify the costs supporting such Offer, including any opportunity cost

                       components, and to make any appropriate adjustment to the applicable

                       Reference Levels. To the extent such costs are verified before market

                       clearing, the Offer may be considered in setting price, and verified costs not

                       recovered through the market price shall be eligible for recovery through

                       applicable make-whole payments provided, that, the sum of any adders above

                       cost included in cost-based incremental energy offers above $1,000/MWh




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                             75.0.0


                       shall not exceed $100/MWh, and make-whole payments shall not include any

                       adders above costs. To the extent such costs are verified after market

                       clearing, the Offer may not be considered in setting prices, but verified costs

                       shall be eligible for recovery through applicable make-whole payments.

                 b. Cost Verification of Offers Above Energy Offer Hard Price Cap. When a

                       Market Participant’s planned or submitted incremental Energy Offer exceeds

                       the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap, the Market Participant should request the

                       Independent Market Monitor to verify the costs supporting such Offer,

                       including any opportunity cost components, and to make any appropriate

                       adjustment to the applicable Reference Levels. Whether any such costs

                       exceeding the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap are verified before or after market

                       clearing, the verified costs shall be eligible for recovery through applicable

                       make-whole payments provided, that, the sum of any adders above cost

                       included in cost-based incremental energy offers above $1,000/MWh shall not

                       exceed $100/MWh, and make-whole payments shall not include any adders

                       above costs.

                 c. Consultation and Dispute Process for Reference Level Determinations

                       and Cost Verification.

                          1.      Before the time of market close for submitting an Offer that

                          exceeds posted Reference Levels and the Energy Offer Soft Price Cap

                          (including any Offer that also exceeds the Energy Offer Hard Price Cap), a

                          Market Participant should initiate a consultation with the Independent




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                        75.0.0


                       Market Monitor by providing its expected delivered fuel price ($/MMBtu),

                       including supporting documentation, through the “Fuel Price Changes” tab

                       of the Independent Market Monitor’s website where Operating Cost

                       Surveys are submitted; or through a successor website for that purpose; or

                       through an e-mail message, phone call or other means of communication,

                       seeking and supporting a Reference Level adjustment and cost

                       verification.

                       2.      The Independent Market Monitor shall verify the expected fuel

                       cost and determine Reference Levels.

                       3.      To the extent warranted, the Independent Market Monitor shall

                       post revised Reference Levels.

                       4.      If a Market Participant’s Offer exceeding $1,000/MWh clears the

                       market before any Independent Market Monitor verification of

                       incremental energy cost exceeding the offer caps, the Market Participant

                       may file a settlement dispute with the Transmission Provider to claim and

                       support a Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee make-whole payment

                       adjustment.

                       5.      In response to such a settlement dispute, the Independent Market

                       Monitor shall perform an audit of the actual fuel cost incurred by the

                       Market Participant. To the extent warranted by the verification results, the

                       Independent Market Monitor shall calculate a make-whole payment

                       amount based on the minimum of: (i) the original Offer; (ii) the verified




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                           75.0.0


                          actual cost; and (iii) the appropriate adjusted Reference Level, including

                          the Fuel Cost Uncertainty Adder. The Transmission Provider shall use the

                          verified cost in the determination of Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency

                          Guarantee Credits or Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in

                          accordance with the Tariff, provided, that, the sum of any adders above

                          cost included in cost-based incremental energy offers above $1,000/MWh

                          shall not exceed $100/MWh, and make-whole payments shall not include

                          any adders above costs.

                          6.      The Independent Market Monitor’s final cost verification

                          determinations may be disputed by a Market Participant with the

                          Transmission Provider pursuant to Attachment HH of the Tariff.

                 d. Cost Verification of Adjusted Energy Offers of Fast Start Resources

                       Exceeding Energy Offer Soft Price Cap. The Transmission Provider will

                       verify the Fast Start Resource All-In Energy Offers by comparing the Fast

                       Start Resource All-In Energy Offers with the Fast Start Resource All-In

                       Reference Levels using the Reference Level components, adjusted as

                       appropriate, provided by the IMM.

                 e. Cost Verification of Adjusted Energy Offers of Emergency Operations

                       Resources Exceeding Energy Offer Soft Price Cap. The Transmission

                       Provider will verify the Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers

                       by comparing the Emergency Operations Resource All-In Energy Offers with

                       the Emergency Operations Resource All-In Reference Levels using the




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                             75.0.0


                       Reference Level components, adjusted as appropriate, provided by the IMM.

   b.     If sufficient data does not exist to calculate a Reference Level on the basis of the first

          method, and the second is not applicable or an attempt to determine a Reference Level in

          consultation with a Market Participant has not been successful, the IMM shall determine

          a Reference Level on the basis of:

          i.     The IMM’s estimate of the costs of a Generation Resource or technical

                 characteristics of a Generation Resource for physical Offer parameters, taking

                 into account available operating costs data, appropriate input from the Market

                 Participant, and the best information available to the IMM; or

          ii.    The mean of the LMP or applicable MCP at the unit’s location during the lowest-

                 priced twenty-five percent (25%) of the hours that the unit was dispatched or

                 scheduled for Operating Reserve over the previous ninety (90) days for similar

                 hours or Load levels, adjusted for changes in fuel prices; or

          iii.   An appropriate average of competitive Offers of one (1) or more similar

                 Generation Resources; or

          iv.    If values calculated using the methods of subsection a.iii above, or subsection b.i

                 or b.ii as applicable, plus the Fuel Cost Uncertainty Adder, exceed $1,000 per

                 MWh for portions of the incremental operating cost, then the Reference Level

                 will be set using the methods from subsection a.iii or b.i or b.ii for those portions

                 of the incremental operating cost curve plus the Fuel Cost Uncertainty Adder and

                 will prevail over the results from the methods under subsections a.i and a.ii.

   c.     Reference Levels for the Energy Offers of a Generation Resource may vary over the




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                           75.0.0


          output range of the Generation Resource. Reference Levels may be shifted to recognize

          ambient temperature conditions or seasonal factors based on input provided to the IMM

          by the Market Participant.

   d.     Initial Reference Levels for ZRC Offers will be set at $0/MW-day.

   e.     Facility-specific Reference Level may be established for Planning Resources (except for

          Demand Resources, Behind the Meter Generation Resources less than or equal to ten (10)

          MW GVTC that are registered as Load Modifying Resources, or External Resources) if a

          Market Participant provides documentation of Going-Forward Costs of keeping a

          Planning Resource in operation or Going-Forward Costs for returning a Planning

          Resource from a Suspend status.

          i.     For purposes of this section, “Going-Forward Costs” shall mean either:

                 (a) the seasonal costs, as described in Section 64.1.4.f.iii below, of supplying

                 Planning Resources that could be avoided if a supplier otherwise capable of

                 supplying Planning Resources were either (1) to cease supplying Planning

                 Resources and Energy for a period of one Season or more while retaining the

                 ability to re-enter such markets, or (2) to retire permanently from supplying

                 Planning Resources and Energy; or

                 (b) the net opportunity costs of foregone sales outside of MISO, net of costs that

                 would have been incurred as a result of the foregone sale if it had taken place. To

                 allow the Independent Market Monitor to verify the opportunity costs of foregone

                 sales outside of MISO, a Market Participant must provide the Independent Market

                 Monitor with documentation demonstrating the availability of a specific external




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                          75.0.0


                 opportunity, including any counter-party, as well as a demonstration of adequate

                 transmission service. The IMM shall respect the limits of such an external

                 opportunity, such as the amount of available transmission service.

          ii.    Beginning with the 2017/2018 Planning Year, the Transmission Provider and the

                 IMM shall determine the default technology-specific avoidable costs for each

                 Season and post them on the Transmission Provider’s website by no later than 59

                 days prior to the deadline for offers to sell Planning Resources in the Planning

                 Resource Auction. The establishment of default technology-specific avoidable

                 costs does not preclude a Market Participant from using facility-specific avoidable

                 costs. To determine the applicable technology-specific avoidable costs for a

                 Season, the IMM shall use the values in the table below, updated to the applicable

                 Planning Year by using the Consumer Price Index (Series ID CUUR0000SA0L1E

                 or a similar successor). The default technology-specific avoidable costs shall be

                 expressed in dollar values for the applicable Planning Year.

                  Technology Type            Suspension           Retirement          Year
                                             Avoidable Cost       Avoidable Cost      Dollars
                                             ($/MW-Day)           ($/MW-Day)
                                             ICAP Basis           ICAP Basis
                  Combustion Turbine –       $8.84                $13.60              2017
                  Industrial Frame
                  Coal Fired                 $61.03               $93.89              2017
                  Combined Cycle             $21.68               $33.36              2017
                  Combustion Turbine –       $27.03               $41.58              2019
                  Aero Derivative
                  Diesel Piston              $58.29               $89.68              2019
                  Hydro                      $36.48               $56.12              2017
                  Oil and Gas Steam          $40.92               $62.95              2017
                  Pumped Storage             $39.18               $60.27              2017
                  Wind                       $43.67               $67.19              2019




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                          75.0.0


                  Nuclear Single-Unit Site    $178.18             $509.08              2023
                  Nuclear Multi-Unit Site     $130.28             $372.24              2023
                  Solar                       $24.87              $38.26               2017
                  Battery Storage             $21.39              $32.90               2019

                 To determine the default technology specific avoidable costs, the IMM shall apply

                 the index series ending with the most recently available at the time of the

                 calculation and starting with the value of the same month and in the year of the

                 “Year Dollars” shown in the table above. In the event that the start of the

                 applicable Planning Year is more than six months after the index date of the most

                 recently available index at the time of the calculation, additional whole years of

                 escalation will be applied based on the ten-year average index change. Additional

                 years forward trigger additional escalation in the same fashion.

                 The values in the table above reflect an Installed Capacity (ICAP) basis. The

                 IMM will adjust these values unit by unit to a Seasonal Accredited Capacity basis

                 as Market Participants elect to use these default avoidable costs.


                 The values in the table above will be reviewed and updated, if necessary, by the

                 Transmission Provider and the IMM in the Transmission Provider’s stakeholder

                 process no less frequently than every three Planning Years beginning with the

                 2017/2018 Planning Year.

          iii.   The Going-Forward Costs of a Planning Resource (excluding Demand Resources,

                 Behind the Meter Generation Resources less than or equal to ten (10) MW GVTC

                 that are registered as Load Modifying Resources or External Resources) shall be

                 calculated by determining the costs that can be avoided by the suspension or




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                               64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                            75.0.0


                 retirement or seasonal operation of the Planning Resource. Thus, Going-Forward

                 Costs are equal to the costs that will be borne by a Planning Resource supplier by

                 either maintaining in, or returning a Planning Resource to, commercial operation

                 for a specific Season of a Planning Year minus the costs that would be borne by

                 such supplier resulting from retiring, suspending, or keeping a Planning Resource

                 in suspension.

                        Going-Forward Costs = Case 1 – Case 2

                        Where:

                                  Case 1 = Costs incurred to continue operating or return a Planning

                                  Resource from suspension or seasonal shutdown, as applicable,

                                  and then retiring or suspending the Planning Resource at the end of

                                  the Season, as applicable

                                  Case 2 = Costs incurred to retire, suspend, or keep a Planning

                                  Resource in suspension or seasonal shutdown at the beginning of

                                  the Season, as applicable

                 a.     Each case should be comprised of costs from the following categories:

                        1. Operations and Maintenance Labor (OML): the labor expenses related

                            directly to operations and maintenance of the Planning Resource. The

                            categories of expenses included in OML are those incurred for: (a) on-

                            site based labor engaged in operations and maintenance activities; (b)

                            off-site based labor engaged in on-site operations and maintenance

                            activities directly related to the generating unit; and (c) off-site based




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                          75.0.0


                          labor engaged in off-site operations and maintenance activities directly

                          related to generating unit equipment removed from the generating unit

                          site.

                       2. Administrative Expenses (AE): the administrative expenses related

                          directly to the Planning Resource. The categories of expenses in AE

                          include but are not limited to those incurred for: (a) employee

                          expenses (except employee expenses included in OML); (b)

                          environmental fees; (c) safety and operator training; (d) office

                          supplies; (e) communications; and (f) annual plant test, inspection and

                          analysis.

                       3. Fuel Availability Expenses (FAE): the operating expenses related

                          directly to fuel availability and delivery for the Planning Resource that

                          are not normally included for recovery in energy and ancillary services

                          market offers. The categories of expenses in FAE include but are not

                          limited to those incurred for: (a) fuel transportation; (b) natural gas

                          storage costs; (c) costs of gas balancing agreements; and (d) costs of

                          gas park and loan services.

                       4. Maintenance Expenses (ME): the maintenance expenses (other than

                          expenses included in OML) related directly to the Planning Resource.

                          The categories of expenses in ME include, but are not limited to, those

                          incurred for: (a) chemical and materials consumed during maintenance

                          of the generating unit; and (b) rented maintenance equipment used to




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                           75.0.0


                          maintain the generating unit.

                       5. Operating Expenses (OE): the operating expenses related directly to

                          the Planning Resource. The categories of expenses in OE include, but

                          are not limited to, those incurred for: (a) water treatment chemicals

                          and lubricants; (b) water, gas, and electric service (not for power

                          generation); and (c) waste water treatment.

                       6. Taxes, Fees and Insurance (TFI): the tax, fees, and insurance expenses

                          related directly to the Planning Resource. The categories of expenses

                          in TFI include but are not limited to those incurred for: (a) insurance,

                          (b) permits and licensing fees, (c) site security and utilities for

                          maintaining security at the site; and (d) property taxes.

                       7. Corporate Level Expenses (CLE): the corporate level expenses directly

                          related to the Planning Resource. Corporate level expenses shall

                          include only such expenses that are directly linked to providing

                          tangible services required for the operation or maintenance of the

                          Planning Resource, to the extent that retirement or suspension results

                          in a cost reduction rather than a reallocation. The categories of

                          expenses included in CLE are those incurred for: (a) legal services, (b)

                          environmental reporting; and (c) procurement expenses.

                       8. Capital Costs (CC): mandatory capital expenditures necessary to

                          comply with federal or state environmental, safety or reliability

                          requirements that must be met in order to supply Planning Resources.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                          75.0.0


                          The categories of expenses that may be included in CC are those

                          incurred for: (a) engineering, (b) procurement (c) construction and (d)

                          cancellation fees.

                 b.    The Going-Forward Costs of a Planning Resource (excluding Demand

                       Resources, Behind the Meter Generation Resources less than or equal to

                       ten (10) MW GVTC that are registered as Load Modifying Resources or

                       External Resources) shall be determined by the IMM upon the request of

                       the Market Participant responsible for the Planning Resource, provided

                       such request is made not later than forty-five (45) days prior to the

                       deadline for offers to sell Planning Resources in the Planning Resource

                       Auction, and provided such request is supported by a submission showing

                       the supplier’s relevant costs in accordance with specifications provided by

                       the IMM.

                 c.    The submission supporting the request for Going-Forward Costs must

                       meet the following requirements.

                       1. Such request must indicate if the Going-Forward Cost is to be based

                          upon suspension, retirement, seasonal operation or net opportunity cost

                          of foregone sales.

                       2. For requests based on seasonal operation suspension or retirement, the

                          following three sets of time-series cost data is required:

                               i. a minimum of two years of historic costs related to the

                                  Planning Resource, on either a monthly or yearly granularity.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                     75.0.0


                              The historic costs are to include the same items that are

                              provided in the below Operating Forecast;

                          ii. a forecast of cost incurred for the Planning Resource to be in

                              service for the relevant Season(s) of the Planning Year

                              (Operating Forecast). This forecast is to start on the date that

                              the PRA results are due to be posted and continue with a

                              monthly granularity during the applicable Season(s) for at least

                              24 months. After the applicable Season, the remainder of the

                              24 months should reflect the anticipated operations of the

                              Planning Resource in the absence of capacity revenues.

                              Typically, the Operating Forecast would show the costs of

                              proceeding with retiring or suspending the resource as

                              applicable at the conclusion of the Season but it may show

                              suspensions for just select Seasons of the year; and

                       iii.   a forecast of the cost incurred to retire, suspend, or keep a

                              Planning Resource in suspension effective the beginning of the

                              relevant Season of the Planning Year, as applicable. This

                              forecast is to have the same items, granularity and time span as

                              the Operating Forecast. After the applicable Season, the

                              remainder of the 24 months should reflect the anticipated

                              operations of the Planning Resource in the absence of capacity

                              revenues. Typically, the Operating Forecast would show the




                                                                        Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                        75.0.0


                                  costs of proceeding with retiring or suspending the resource as

                                  applicable at the conclusion of the Season but it may show

                                  suspensions for just select Seasons of the year.

                       3. The Market Participant has the option of using the default technology

                          specific avoidable costs in place of the non-capital portion of the

                          avoidable costs and should indicate such election to the IMM upon

                          submission of the Market Participant’s request. If this option is

                          elected, the Market Participant may only supply the capital costs in the

                          above three sets of data.

                       4. Market Participants may not include costs that are normally included

                          for recovery in energy and ancillary services offers (fuel and short-

                          term variable O&M). Costs are to be on a cash basis rather than an

                          amortization schedule and should not include non-cash costs such as

                          depreciation.

                       5. The costs provided by Market Participants in each forecast are to be

                          required and consistent with the seasonal operation, suspension or

                          retirement schedule applicable to the case.

                       6. Market Participants must provide sufficient detail to validate the costs

                          and to differentiate between fixed and variable costs. The detail is to

                          include the number of personnel in the various segments of staffing

                          expenses.

                       7. Market Participants must provide descriptions of the costs items and




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                          75.0.0


                          why they are needed to support the cases. Costs are to be justified by

                          the supplier based on actual data from the historic costs or on

                          reasonable projections for the Season of the Planning Year supported

                          by executed contracts, published tariffs, or other data sufficient to

                          demonstrate with reasonable certainty the level of costs that have been

                          or shall be incurred for such purpose.

                 d.    A Market Participant shall request an updated determination of the Going-

                       Forward Costs not less often than annually, in the absence of which

                       request the Capacity supplier’s offer cap shall revert to the Reference

                       Level. An updated determination of Going-Forward Costs may be

                       undertaken by the ISO at any time on its own initiative after consulting

                       with the Market Participant. Any redetermination of a Capacity supplier’s

                       Going-Forward Costs shall conform to the consultation and determination

                       schedule specified in this paragraph. The costs that a Capacity supplier

                       would avoid as a result of retiring or of seasonal operation should only be

                       included in its Going-Forward Costs if the owner or operator of that

                       facility actually plans to retire it or to shutdown for one or more Seasons

                       because the Capacity revenues it receives are not sufficient to cover those

                       costs. A Market Participant that requests a facility-specific Reference

                       Level utilizing retirement-based avoidable costs (default or facility-

                       specific) must submit an affidavit signed by an authorized officer of the

                       Market Participant attesting that, if the resource does not clear the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                           75.0.0


                        applicable Planning Resource Auction, the Market Participant will submit

                        an Attachment Y Notice and provide notification to the Transmission

                        Provider to convert to a Retire status for the resource effective prior to the

                        beginning of the following Planning Year (i.e., no later than May 31 of the

                        year after the Planning Resource Auction results are posted).

          iv.    The IMM shall set the facility-specific Planning Resource Reference Level equal

                 to the Going Forward Costs per MW-Day (utilizing information provided to the

                 IMM by the Market Participant and/or the default technology-specific avoidable

                 cost) less the annual seasonal net revenues the Generation Resource would have

                 received from the Transmission Provider’s Energy and Ancillary Services

                 Markets. The net revenues shall be calculated by the IMM to equal the revenues

                 paid by the Transmission Provider over a recent past 24 month period during the

                 relevant Season for Energy and Ancillary Services minus the Reference Levels

                 for the corresponding services times the quantities of the services sold divided by

                 the product of the days in the 24 month period during the relevant Season times

                 the Seasonal Accredited Capacity quantity (MW) associated with the Electric

                 Facility. In the event that a Generation Resource's capability or participation in

                 the market over a recent past 24-month period is not representative of the

                 upcoming Planning Year, the IMM will estimate net revenue based on either a

                 more representative time period for that Resource or based on other units with

                 similar operating characteristics.

          v.     If the requirements in Section 64.1.4.f.iii are met, the IMM shall determine the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                              64.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Reference Levels
MODULES                                                                                           75.0.0


                 level of the facility-specific Planning Resource Reference Level not later than 5

                 days prior to the deadline for submitting offers to sell Planning Resources in the

                 Planning Resource Auction.

   f.     The IMM will make available to the Market Participant the Reference Levels applicable

          to that Participant’s Offers upon request. This shall include supplying facility-specific

          Planning Resource Reference Level to the applicable Market Participants not later than

          five (5) days prior to the deadline for submitting ZRC Offers under the Planning

          Resource Auction.

   g.     Upon request by a Market Participant or at the initiative of the IMM, the IMM shall

          consult with a Market Participant with respect to the Reference Levels determined for

          that Market Participant. If cost data or other information submitted by a Market

          Participant indicates to the satisfaction of the IMM that the Reference Levels for that

          Market Participant should be changed, revised Reference Levels shall be determined,

          communicated to the Market Participant, and implemented, as soon as practicable. The

          IMM shall provide a written explanation of its determination to the Transmission

          Provider, and to the Market Participant upon request.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         64.2
FERC Electric Tariff                 Price Effects or Changes in Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Cr
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


   Price Effects or Changes in Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits




                                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               64.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                             Market Impact Thresholds
MODULES                                                                                            45.0.0


   a.     In order to avoid unnecessary intervention in the Markets and Services administered by

          the Transmission Provider, Mitigation Measures shall not be imposed unless conduct

          identified as specified above (i) causes a substantial change in one or more prices in the

          Markets and Services administered by the Transmission Provider, or (ii) substantially

          increases Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits to Market

          Participants in the Markets and Services administered by the Transmission Provider.

   b.     The thresholds to determine a substantial price effect in a Broad Constrained Area shall

          be a change of 200 percent or $100 per MWh, whichever is lower in absolute terms, in

          the LMP at any location, or of any other price in any Market administered by the

          Transmission Provider.

   c.     The thresholds to determine a substantial effect on LMPs in a Narrow Constrained Area

          or a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area in Constrained Hours (as defined in Section

          64.1.2.c) shall be: the threshold for a Narrow Constrained Area determined in accordance

          with the formula specified in Section 64.1.2.c.i.(a) above and the threshold for a Dynamic

          Narrow Constrained Area determined in accordance with the formula specified in Section

          64.1.2.c.i.(b) above, respectively. When a Binding Transmission Constraint

          simultaneously defines both a Narrow Constrained Area and a Dynamic Narrow

          Constrained Area, the applicable impact thresholds will be the lower of the two

          thresholds determined under sections 64.1.2.c.i.a. and 64.1.2.c.i.b.

   d.     The threshold to determine a substantial effect on Market Clearing Prices shall be $10 per

          MW per Hour for Operating Reserves and $10 per MW per Hour for Short-Term

          Reserve.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                           64.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Market Impact Thresholds
MODULES                                                                                        45.0.0


   e.     The threshold to determine a substantial effect on Auction Clearing Prices for Planning

          Resources shall be an increase in the Auction Clearing Price equal to ten (10) percent of

          the CONE value divided by the number of days in the Planning Year. In Local Resource

          Zones where import constraints bind, the threshold to determine a substantial effect on

          Auction Clearing Prices for Planning Resources shall be an increase in the Auction

          Clearing Price equal to $0/MW-day.

   f.     The threshold to determine a substantial effect on Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits paid to Resources committed in Broad Constrained Areas,

          Narrow Constrained Areas, or Dynamic Narrow Constrained Areas or committed for

          Voltage and Local Reliability, shall be $0 per MW per Hour.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                             64.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Price Impact Analysis
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   When it has the capability to do so, the IMM shall determine the effect on prices of questioned

   conduct through the use of sensitivity analyses performed using the Transmission Provider’s

   market models, and such other computer modeling or analytic methods as the IMM shall deem

   appropriate. Pending development of the capability to use the market models, the IMM shall

   determine the effect on prices of questioned conduct using the best available data and such

   models and methods, as it shall deem appropriate.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2020
MISO                                                                                               64.2.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Section 205 Filings
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall make a filing under Section 205 of the FPA with the

   Commission seeking authorization to apply an appropriate Mitigation Measure to conduct that

   departs significantly from the conduct that would be expected under competitive market

   conditions but does not rise to the thresholds specified in Sections 64.1.1 through 64.1.3 above, if

   that conduct has a significant effect on market prices or Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue

   Sufficiency Guarantee Payments Credits.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 64.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Consultation with a Market Participant
MODULES                                                                                            33.0.0


   a.     If, through the application of an appropriate index or screen or other monitoring of

          market conditions, conduct is identified that (i) exceeds an applicable threshold, and

          (ii) has a substantial effect, as specified above, on one (1) or more prices or Day-Ahead

          or Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in the Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets, Planning Resource Auction, or any other market administered by the

          Transmission Provider, the IMM shall, as soon as practicable and if warranted in light of

          the information available to the IMM, contact the Market Participant engaging in the

          identified conduct to request an explanation of the conduct. If a Market Participant

          anticipates submitting Offers in Markets and Services administered by the Transmission

          Provider that will exceed the thresholds specified in Section 64.1 above for identifying

          conduct inconsistent with competition, the Market Participant may contact the IMM to

          provide an explanation of any legitimate basis for any such changes in the Market

          Participant’s Offers.

   b.     If a Market Participant’s explanation of the reasons for its Offers indicates to the

          satisfaction of the IMM that the questioned conduct is consistent with competitive

          behavior, no further action will be taken.

   c.     Upon request, the IMM shall also consult with a Market Participant with respect to the

          information and analysis used to determine Reference Levels under Section 64.1.4 for

          that Market Participant. If cost data or other information submitted by a Market

          Participant indicates to the satisfaction of the IMM that the Reference Levels for that

          Market Participant should be changed, revised Reference Levels shall be determined,

          communicated to the Market Participant, and implemented, as soon as practicable by the




                                                                             Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                               64.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Consultation with a Market Participant
MODULES                                                                                          33.0.0


          Transmission Provider. The IMM shall provide a written explanation of its determination

          to the Transmission Provider, and to the Market Participant upon request.

   d.     A Market Participant for a Resource that does not satisfy any of the conditions to be

          designated an AME Resource as further described in Section 39.2.5.b.xxvi, may request

          consultation with the IMM regarding whether such designation is appropriate.

   e.     To replace Cleared ZRCs pursuant to Section 69A.3.1.h, a Market Participant for an

          LMR may request consultation with the IMM regarding whether such replacement is

          appropriate.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                65
FERC Electric Tariff               Mitigation Measures
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 65.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                              Purpose
MODULES                                                                                            31.0.0


   If conduct is detected by the IMM or the Transmission Provider that meets the criteria specified

   in Section 63.3, the appropriate Mitigation Measure described in this Section shall be applied.

   The conduct specified in Sections 64.1.1 to 64.1.3 shall be remedied by the Transmission

   Provider’s prospective application of a Default Offer measure as described in Section 65.2,

   below. If an entity engages in certain types of physical withholding or uneconomic production

   that cannot feasibly be remedied by the prospective application of a Default Offer, or if

   otherwise appropriate to deter either the physical withholding or uneconomic production, the

   Transmission Provider shall determine the appropriate sanction in accordance with Section 65.3

   below.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                              65.2
FERC Electric Tariff                     Default Offer
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              65.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                             Purpose
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


   A Default Offer shall be designed to cause a Market Participant to Offer as if it faced workable

   competition during a period when the Market Participant: (i) does not face workable

   competition; and, (ii) has responded to such condition by engaging in the physical or economic

   withholding of, or uneconomic production, from a Generation or Planning Resource. In

   designing Default Offers, the IMM and the Transmission Provider shall seek to avoid causing a

   Resource to Offer below its marginal cost.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                             65.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Implementation
MODULES                                                                                          48.0.0


   a.     If the criteria contained in Section 64 are met, the Transmission Provider shall

          prospectively substitute a Default Offer for an Offer submitted for a Generation

          Resource, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, or Planning Resource. The Default

          Offer shall establish a mitigated value for one or more components of the Offer for a

          Generation Resource, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or Planning Resource

          equal to the Reference Level for that component of the Generation or Planning

          Resource’s Offer determined as specified in Section 64.1.4.

   b.     A Default Offer shall only be imposed on a Generation Resource or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resource if it is located in a Broad Constrained Area or a Narrow

          Constrained Area and if there are one or more Binding Transmission Constraints, or

          binding Post Reserve Deployment Constraints (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance

          Constraints), or Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints into the Second Planning Area

          defining the area; or if a Generation Resource, including any Electric Storage Resource or

          Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource is located in a Dynamic Narrow Constrained

          Area and if there are one or more Binding Transmission Constraints defining the area.

          This limitation shall not apply to the imposition of Default Offers on Planning Resources

          or resources with VLR Commitments.

   c.     To ensure that the Default Offer is only imposed on Resources that substantially affect a

          BCA constraint, it shall only be applied to Generation Resources or Distributed Energy

          Aggregated Resources with Constraint Generation Shift Factors that exceed in absolute

          terms:

          i.       Six percent (6%) for monitored elements at or above 345 KV;




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             65.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Implementation
MODULES                                                                                          48.0.0


          ii.    Four percent (4%) for monitored elements below 345 KV and above 138 KV;

          iii.   Three percent (3%) for monitored elements at or below 138 KV.

   d.     A Resource subject to a Default Offer shall be paid the LMP, MCP, Auction Clearing

          Price, or other market-clearing prices applicable to the services provided from the

          Resource. Accordingly, a Default Offer shall not limit the price that a Resource may

          receive unless the Default Offer determines the LMP, MCP, Auction Clearing Price, or

          other market clearing price applicable to that Resource.

   e.     The Transmission Provider shall not use a Default Offer to determine revised market

          clearing prices for periods prior to the imposition of the Default Offer, except as may be

          specifically authorized by the Commission.

   f.     With respect to both physical and economic withholding, a Mitigation Measure imposed

          in a Narrow Constrained Area, a Dynamic Narrow Constrained Area, or a Broad

          Constrained Area in accordance with the conduct thresholds of Sections 64.1.1 and

          64.1.2, and the impact thresholds of Section 64.2.1 shall remain in effect for the duration

          of any hour in which there is an interval for which such mitigation is deemed warranted.

   g.     Safety-Net Day-Ahead Mitigation Method:

          The Transmission Provider will employ an Automated Mitigation Procedure (“AMP”) to

          perform the impact test and implement mitigation on the same market day that the

          conduct occurred. If the AMP becomes unavailable to complete such functions in a

          timely manner, the following process will be employed:




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                            65.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Implementation
MODULES                                                                                         48.0.0


          i.     Resources with Day-Ahead Offers that exceed the conduct thresholds specified in

                 Sections 64.1.1 and 64.1.2 for a given Operating Day in an active NCA, Dynamic

                 NCA, or BCA will be tested for impact.

          ii.    If the conduct of these Generation Resources or Distributed Energy Aggregated

                 Resources results in market impacts that exceed the impact thresholds specified in

                 Section 64.2.1 for a given Operating Day, all Resources owned by the same

                 supplier in the same NCA, Dynamic NCA, or active BCA will be considered for

                 mitigation in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the

                 following day.

          iii.   When the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market is run for the

                 following day, if a Generation Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated

                 Resource identified in (ii) submits a Day-Ahead Generation Offer that exceeds its

                 conduct threshold, the Transmission Provider shall prospectively substitute a

                 Default Offer for that Offer submitted by the Generation Resource.

          iv.    If the same supplier submits any Day-Ahead Offers that exceed both the conduct

                 thresholds and impact thresholds for the same NCA, Dynamic NCA, or active

                 BCA within the next 90 days, the supplier’s Generation Resources in that NCA,

                 Dynamic NCA, or active BCA will be considered for mitigation in the Day-

                 Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for the following seven (7) days.

                 a.     In any of these seven (7) days, if a Generation Resource identified in (iv)

                        submits Day-Ahead Offer(s) that exceeds the conduct threshold, the




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          65.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Implementation
MODULES                                                                                       48.0.0


                       Transmission Provider shall prospectively substitute a Default Offer for

                       such Offer submitted for that Generation Resource.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                              65.3
FERC Electric Tariff                         Sanctions
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             65.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Imposition
MODULES                                                                                          47.0.0


   a.     If the IMM determines in accordance with the thresholds and other standards specified in

          this Module D, Part III that: (i) a Market Participant has engaged in physical

          withholding, or (ii) a Market Participant has engaged in uneconomic production; or (iii) a

          Load Serving Entity is subject to a Penalty Level payment in accordance with

          Section 65.4 below; or (iv) a Transmission Owner has physically withheld of

          transmission that causes transmission congestion, including the operation of network

          control devices in a manner that was not economic, the Transmission Provider shall

          determine the appropriate sanction in accordance with this Section 65.3.

   b.     A Market Participant that is found to have engaged in the conduct described in Section

          65.3.1.a above, shall be subject to a penalty charge only if the conduct has caused a

          substantial increase in one or more prices or Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue

          Sufficiency Guarantee Credits in the Markets and Services administered by the

          Transmission Provider. Generation Resources that are not designated to satisfy RAR

          shall not be subject to penalty charges for physical withholding from the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market or Reliability Assessment Commitment process

          during the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   c.     This Section 65.3 shall apply to a Generation Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated

          Resource only if it is located in a Broad Constrained Area or a Narrow Constrained Area

          and if there are one or more Binding Transmission Constraints, or binding Post Reserve

          Deployment Constraints (other than Sub-Regional Power Balance Constraints), or Sub-

          Regional Power Balance Constraints into the Second Planning Area that give rise to

          locational market power in the area; or to a Generation Resource, including any Electric




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              65.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           Imposition
MODULES                                                                                           47.0.0


          Storage Resource or Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource, located in a Dynamic

          Narrow Constrained Area and if there are one or more Binding Transmission Constraints

          that give rise to locational market power in the area. Section 65.3 shall apply to all

          Planning Resources, regardless of location.

   d.     The formulas used to determine the penalty charges in Sections 65.3.2 and 65.3.3 below

          shall constitute the maximum penalty charges that may be assessed.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                             65.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Base Penalty Amount
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


   a.     Penalty charges shall be determined by assessing a penalty up to the product of a Total

          Base Penalty Charge, as specified below, times the appropriate multiplier specified in

          Section 65.3.3:

          Base Penalty Charge =         Capability (MW) Affected * Penalty Price * Penalty
                                        Interval during Penalty Period

   b.     Total Base Penalty Charge equal the sum of the Base Penalty Charges over all the

          Penalty Intervals in the Penalty Period.

   c.     For purposes of determining a Base Penalty Charge, the term “Penalty Period” shall

          mean: (i) for a Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the hours in which

          conduct occurred; (ii) for a Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market, the Hours

          in the calendar Day commencing in the Hour in which the conduct first occurred and

          concluding at the Hour in which the conduct was determined to have ceased; (iii) for

          Market Participant Bids to serve Load, the hours giving rise to Penalty Level payments;

          and (iv) for the Planning Resource Auction, the Season of the Planning Year in which the

          capacity was deemed to be withheld by a Market Participant from the auction.

   d.     For purposes of determining a Base Penalty Charge, the term “Penalty Price” shall mean:

          (i) for conduct involving a Generation Resource that affects the outcome of the Day-

          Ahead and Operating Reserve Market, or the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve

          Market, the absolute value of the LMP or MCP at the Commercial Pricing Node most

          affected by the conduct; (ii) for an entity withholding equipment used for transmission of

          electricity, the shadow price on the transmission constraint most affected by the

          withholding; and (iii) for conduct affecting the outcomes of the Planning Resource

          Auction, the Auction Clearing Price for the applicable Season of the Planning Year.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                             65.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Base Penalty Amount
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


   e.     For purposes of determining a Base Penalty Charge, the term “Capability (MW)

          Affected” shall include (i) the quantity of the Generation Resources physically withheld

          or uneconomically produced, (ii) the transmission capability reduced by a Transmission

          Owner, (iii) the Load under-scheduled by a Market Participant for an LSE, or (iv) the

          Planning Resources physically withheld. It shall not include economically withheld

          resources.

   f.     For the purposes of determining a Base Penalty Charge, the term “Penalty Interval” shall

          mean the applicable number of time increments corresponding to the Penalty Price and

          Capacity (MW) Affected. This would typically be a portion of an Hour for conduct

          affecting LMPs and MCPs, and the number of days in the Planning Year in the Planning

          Resource Auction for conduct affecting the Auction Clearing Price.

   g.     Real-Time LMPs, Operating Reserve MCPs, Short-Term Reserve MCPs, Up Ramp

          Capability MCPs, and Down Ramp Capability MCPs shall not be revised as a result of

          the imposition of a penalty charge as specified in this Section, except as may be

          specifically authorized by the Commission.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2023
MISO                                                                                               65.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           Multipliers
MODULES                                                                                            32.0.0


   The Total Base Penalty Charge specified in Section 65.3.2 shall be subject to the following

   multipliers:

          a.      For the first instance of a type of conduct by a Market Participant meeting the

                  standards for mitigation, the multiplier shall be one (1).

          b.      For the second instance within eighteen (18) months of substantially similar

                  conduct regarding the same product (e.g., Energy, regardless of whether it is in

                  the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or Real-Time Energy and

                  Operating Reserve Market) by a Market Participant or its Affiliates, the multiplier

                  shall be two (2).

          c.      For the third instance or any additional instance within eighteen (18) months of

                  substantially similar conduct regarding the same product (e.g., Energy, regardless

                  of whether it is in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market or Real-

                  Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market) by a Market Participant or its

                  Affiliates, the multiplier shall be three (3).




                                                                               Effective On: March 1, 2020
MISO                                                                                              65.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Disposition of Penalty Charges
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   Except as specified in Section 65.4.3, amounts collected as a result of the imposition of penalty

   charges shall be credited against costs collectable under Schedule 17 of the Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                         65.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                   Removal of Make-Whole Payment Eligibility or Reduction of Cr
MODULES                                                                                      33.0.0


   Removal of Make-Whole Payment Eligibility or Reduction of Credits

   The Transmission Provider shall remove eligibility for Day-Ahead Revenue Sufficiency

   Guarantee Credit, Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit, Day-Ahead Margin

   Assurance Payment, Real-Time Offer Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Payment, and Undeployed

   Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee, or appropriately reduce any such credits, of

   any Resource that is determined to have engaged in conduct that has the effect of manipulating

   or gaming any of the make-whole payment mechanisms in a manner that extracts undue

   payments. Such previously extracted undue payments shall be retrieved and resettled by the

   Transmission Provider in the resettlement provision of the Tariff. Such manipulation or gaming

   shall be determined in accordance with the criteria in Section 64 of the Tariff. This provision

   will also apply to Resources committed in the multi-day FRAC process that increase their Offers

   for the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market.




                                                                          Effective On: January 30, 2026
MISO                                             65.4
FERC Electric Tariff                    Load Measures
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           65.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Purpose
MODULES                                                                                        33.0.0


   As initially implemented, the Transmission Provider market rules allow Market Participants to

   choose to purchase power to serve Load in either the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve

   Market or in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market. As a result of this and other

   design features, certain bidding practices may cause LMPs in the Day-Ahead Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market not to achieve the degree of convergence with the LMPs in the Real-

   Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market that would be expected in a workably competitive

   market.




                                                                            Effective On: May 1, 2016
MISO                                                                                            65.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Implementation
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   a.     LMPs in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be monitored to

          determine whether there is a persistent hourly deviation between them in any location

          that would not be expected in a workably competitive market.

   b.     The IMM shall compute the average hourly deviation between Energy and Operating

          Reserve Markets LMPs, measured as: (LMPreal time / LMPday ahead) - 1. The average

          hourly deviation shall be computed over a rolling four week period or such other period

          determined by the IMM to be appropriate to achieve the purpose of this Mitigation

          Measure.

   c.     The IMM shall also estimate and monitor the average percentage of each Market

          Participant’s Bid to serve Load scheduled in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market, using a methodology intended to identify a sustained pattern of under-

          bidding as accurately as deemed practicable. The average percentage will be computed

          over a specified time period determined by the IMM to be appropriate to achieve the

          purpose of this Mitigation Measure.

   d.     If the IMM determines that: (i) The average hourly deviation computed over a rolling

          four week period is greater than ten percent (10%) or less than negative ten percent

          (10%), (ii) one or more Market Participants on behalf of one or more LSEs have been

          purchasing more than ten percent (10%) of their Loads with purchases in the Real-Time

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market, (iii) this practice has contributed to the

          divergence of LMP between the two markets, as defined in 65.4.2.d.i above, and (iv) this

          practice has created operational problems which shall be determined by the IMM in

          concert with the Transmission Provider, then the following Mitigation Measure may be




                                                                      Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                         65.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Implementation
MODULES                                                                                      31.0.0


          imposed. A description of any such problem will be posted on the Transmission

          Provider’s website. Any such measure shall be rescinded upon a determination by the

          IMM that any one or more of the foregoing conditions is not met.




                                                                    Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                              65.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Description of the Measure
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   a.     A Market Participant that makes purchases on behalf of a Load Serving Entity shall be

          required to purchase or schedule all of its expected power requirements in the Day-Ahead

          Energy and Operating Reserve Market. A Market Participant subject to this requirement

          may purchase up to five percent (5%) of the actual Load requirements of the LSE on

          whose behalf the Market Participant is making such purchases (the “Allowance Level”)

          in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market without penalty, as determined

          by the IMM to be appropriate in recognition of the uncertainty of load forecasting.

   b.     Effective with the imposition of the foregoing requirement, all purchases in the Real-

          Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market in excess of this Allowance Level (the

          “Penalty Level”) shall be settled at a specified premium over the applicable LMP.

          Revenues from such premiums, if any, shall be rebated on a pro rata basis to the Market

          Participants that scheduled Energy for delivery in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market for the Day in which the revenues were collected.

   c.     The Allowance Level and the Penalty Level shall be established at levels deemed

          effective and appropriate to mitigate the market effects described in this Section 65.4. In

          addition, the Penalty Level payments shall be waived in any hour in which the Allowance

          Level is exceeded because of unexpected system conditions.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                              65.5
FERC Electric Tariff      Virtual Transaction Measures
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            65.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           Purpose
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   The provisions of this Section 65.5 specify the market monitoring and Mitigation Measures

   applicable to Virtual Transactions.




                                                                    Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                             65.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Implementation
MODULES                                                                                          32.0.0


   a.     LMPs in the Energy and Operating Reserve Market shall be monitored to determine

          whether there is a persistent hourly deviation between them that would not be expected in

          a workably competitive market. The IMM shall compute the average hourly deviation

          between LMPs in the Energy and Operating Reserve Market, measured as: (LMPreal time /

          LMPday ahead) - 1. The average hourly deviation shall be computed over a rolling four-

          week period or such other period determined to be appropriate to achieve the purpose of

          this Mitigation Measure.

   b.     If the IMM determines that (i) the average hourly deviation computed over a rolling four

          week period is greater than ten percent (10%) or less than negative ten percent (10%),

          and (ii) the Virtual Transaction practices of one or more Market Participants cause this

          divergence of LMPs between the two (2) markets, then the following Mitigation Measure

          shall be imposed by the Transmission Provider. Any such measure shall be rescinded

          upon a determination by the IMM that the foregoing conditions are not met.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2020
MISO                                                                                             65.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Description of the Measure
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   a.     If the IMM determines that the conditions specified in Section 65.5.2 exist, the

          Transmission Provider shall limit the hourly quantities of Virtual Offers or Bids for

          supply or Load that may be offered in a location by a Market Participant. The

          Transmission Provider will restrict the Market Participant for a period of three (3) months

          from submitting any virtual transactions at the same or similar Commercial Pricing

          Nodes to the Commercial Pricing Nodes where it had submitted the Virtual Transactions

          that contributed to the unwarranted divergence between LMPs in the Energy and

          Operating Reserve Market.

   b.     As part of the foregoing determination, the IMM shall request explanations of the

          relevant Virtual Transaction practices from any Market Participant submitting such Bids

          or Offers. Prior to imposing a Virtual Bid or Offer quantity limitation as specified above,

          the Transmission Provider shall notify the affected Market Participant of the limitation.




                                                                       Effective On: December 28, 2016
MISO                                                                                               65.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Duration of Mitigation Measures
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Any Mitigation Measure imposed as specified above shall expire not later than six (6) months

   after the occurrence of the conduct giving rise to the measure, or at such earlier time as may be

   specified by the Transmission Provider.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                        65.7
FERC Electric Tariff                [RESERVED]
MODULES                                   31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                      65.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                [RESERVED]
MODULES                                   31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                      65.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                [RESERVED]
MODULES                                   31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                      65.7.3
FERC Electric Tariff                [RESERVED]
MODULES                                   31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                                   66
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Annual Review
MODULES                                                                                            38.0.0


   a.     As a component of the IMM’s annual report as required in Module D, Part II to the

          Tariff, the IMM shall review and report on:

          i.     The extent to which mitigation has taken place, including the number of

                 Generation Resources mitigated, and the number of MWh mitigated. The

                 foregoing results should be reported by location as appropriate under the

                 Transmission Provider’s information policies.

          ii.    The economic incentives for maintaining existing generation, investing in new

                 generation or transmission facilities, reserve facilities, or developing additional

                 demand response in various locations within the Transmission Provider Region.

   b.     If the IMM determines that inappropriate application of the Mitigation Measures causes

          an inability of existing or new Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources, Generation

          Resources, including Electric Storage Resources, to operate profitably, or an

          understatement of Energy and other product prices during shortage conditions, the IMM

          shall recommend changes to the Mitigation Measures to prevent such inappropriate

          effects in future periods.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                                    67
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    Dispute Resolution
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   If a Default Offer is substituted for a Market Participant’s as-submitted Offer and it is

   subsequently determined that the Offer should not have been mitigated, the Market Participant

   shall be compensated for each MW for which the Default Offer was substituted, at the higher of

   the applicable MCP or its full, as-submitted Offer for all intervals during which it was

   improperly mitigated, including any applicable Day-Ahead or Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

   Guarantee Credit. This Section 67 shall not restrict the right of any party to make such filing

   with the Commission as may otherwise be appropriate under the Federal Power Act.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                            MODULE E-1
FERC Electric Tariff    RESOURCE ADEQUACY
MODULES                              31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                               68A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     INTRODUCTION
MODULES                                                                                          34.0.0


   This Module E-1 provides mandatory requirements to be met by the Transmission Provider,

   Market Participants serving Load in the Transmission Provider Region or serving Load on behalf

   of a Load Serving Entity (LSE), or other Market Participants, to ensure access to deliverable,

   reliable and adequate Planning Resources to meet Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource

   Zone Peak Demand requirements on the Transmission System. These requirements recognize

   and are complementary to the reliability mechanisms of the states and the Regional Entities (RE)

   within the Transmission Provider Region. Nothing in this Module E-1 affects existing state

   jurisdiction over the construction of additional capacity or the authority of states to set and

   enforce compliance with standards for adequacy. The Resource Adequacy Requirements (RAR)

   in this Module E-1 are not intended to and shall not in any way affect state actions over entities

   under the states’ jurisdiction. To the extent that an LSE’s Coincident Peak Demand is physically

   located within the Transmission Provider’s Balancing Authority Area but is pseudo-tied out of

   the MISO Balancing Authority Area pursuant to the Transmission Provider’s Business Practices

   Manuals (BPM), such Coincident Peak Demand is not subject to the RAR provisions if such

   Coincident Peak Demand is subject to another Balancing Authority Area’s resource adequacy

   requirements. To accomplish these reliability requirements, Module E-1 includes provisions for:

   establishing Local Resource Zones and associated limits (i.e., Capacity Import Limits (CIL) and

   Capacity Export Limits (CEL)); establishing Local Reliability Requirements (LRR); establishing

   Local Clearing Requirements (LCR); establishing External Resource Zones and associated limits

   (i.e., Capacity Export Limits (CEL)); determining the Planning Reserve Margin; Coincident Peak

   Demand forecasting; Local Resource Zone Peak Demand forecasting; qualifying and quantifying

   Planning Resources; participation of Demand and Planning Resources in the Planning Resource




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                        68A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              INTRODUCTION
MODULES                                                                                   34.0.0


   Auction process; settlement provisions; and Planning Resource performance requirements for

   each Season.




                                                                    Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                             68A.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Establishment of Planning Reserve Margins
MODULES                                                                                          33.0.0


   Establishment of Planning Reserve Margins

   The Transmission Provider will determine a Planning Reserve Margin (PRM) in terms of

   Unforced Capacity for each Season using analytical study methods described in Section 68A.2,

   provided that if a State Regulatory Authority establishes a PRM for its regulated entities that is

   higher or lower than the PRM determined by the Transmission Provider, then the State

   Regulatory Authority-established PRM will apply to the Coincident Peak Demand of LSEs under

   that state’s jurisdiction.




                                                                        Effective On: November 30, 2024
MISO                                                                                            68A.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Planning Reserve Margin Analysis
MODULES                                                                                         35.0.0


   Planning Reserve Margin Analysis

   The Transmission Provider shall perform a technical analysis on an annual basis to establish the

   PRM for each Season for the Transmission Provider Region and the Transmission Provider will

   publish the results by November 1 preceding the applicable Planning Year. The PRM analysis

   shall be consistent with Good Utility Practice and the reliability requirements of the REs and the

   applicable states in the Transmission Provider Region. The PRM analysis shall consider factors

   including, but not limited to: the Generator Forced Outage rates of Capacity Resources,

   Generator Planned Outages, expected performance of Load Modifying Resources (LMR), load

   forecast uncertainty, and the Transmission System’s import and export capability with external

   systems. The Transmission Provider annually will calculate and publish on its website the

   estimated PRM for each of the nine subsequent Planning Years, to provide information for long-

   term resource planning, without establishing any enforceable specific planning reserve

   requirements.




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            68A.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Loss of Load Expectation Analysis
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


   Loss of Load Expectation Analysis

   The Transmission Provider shall coordinate with Market Participants to determine the

   appropriate PRM for the applicable Season in the Planning Year based upon the probabilistic

   analysis of being able to reliably serve the Transmission Provider Region’s Demand for the

   applicable Season in the Planning Year. This probabilistic analysis shall use a Loss of Load

   Expectation (LOLE) study which assumes that there are no internal transmission limitations

   within the Transmission Provider Region.

   The following process will be utilized to determine the minimum PRM requirement for each

   Season in the Planning Year using the LOLE analysis. First, an LOLE analysis for the Planning

   Year will be conducted such that the LOLE for the Planning Year is one (1) day in ten (10)

   years, or 0.1 day per year, by either adding or removing capacity. If the LOLE for the Planning

   Year is less than 0.1 day per year, a perfect negative unit with zero forced outage rate will be

   added until the LOLE reaches 0.1 day per year. If the LOLE for the Planning Year is greater than

   0.1 day per year, a perfect positive unit with zero forced outage rate will be added until the

   LOLE reaches 0.1 day per year. If the LOLE for a Season is equal to or greater than 0.01 day

   per year, the minimum PRM requirement for that Season will be calculated based on this LOLE

   analysis. If the LOLE for any Season is less than 0.01 day per year, an additional LOLE analysis

   will be performed to determine minimum PRM requirement for that Season by adding a perfect

   negative unit with zero forced outage rate to that Season until the LOLE in that Season reaches

   0.01.

   The minimum amount of capacity above Coincident Peak Demand in the Transmission Provider

   Region required to meet the reliability criteria will be used to establish the PRM for each Season.




                                                                             Effective On: August 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         68A.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Loss of Load Expectation Analysis
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


   The PRM will be established as a requirement in terms of the total Unforced Capacity for the

   Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                         Effective On: August 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             68A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Establishment of LRZs and ERZs
MODULES                                                                                          34.0.0


   No later than September 1st of the year prior to a Planning Year, the Transmission Provider will,

   as necessary, develop new Local Resource Zones (LRZ) to reflect the need for an adequate

   amount of Planning Resources to be located in the right physical locations within the

   Transmission Provider Region to reliably meet Demand and LOLE requirements. The

   geographic boundaries of each of the LRZs will be based upon analysis that considers: (1) the

   electrical boundaries of Local Balancing Authorities; (2) state boundaries; (3) the relative

   strength of transmission interconnections between Local Balancing Authorities; (4) the results of

   LOLE studies; (5) the relative size of LRZs; and (6) natural geographic boundaries such as lakes

   and rivers. The Transmission Provider may re-evaluate the boundaries of LRZs if there are

   significant changes in the Transmission Provider Region based upon the preceding factors,

   including but not limited to, significant changes in membership, the Transmission System, and/or

   Resources.

   An External Resource Zone (ERZ) will be created for each external Balancing Authority that has

   External Resources qualifying as Planning Resources, excluding those Balancing Authorities

   with only Coordinating Owner resources that are qualified to obtain local credit and/or Border

   External Resources.




                                                                         Effective On: November 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                          68A.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Establishment of SRRZs, SRECs and SRICs
MODULES                                                                                         37.0.0


   Establishment of SRRZs, SRECs and SRICs

   The Transmission Provider will establish and publish, on the Transmission Provider’s public

   website, SRRZs, SRECs and SRICs for each Season as soon as practical but no later than the

   first business day of March for the following Planning Year. To calculate the SRECs and SRICs,

   the Transmission Provider will determine the transfer limit between SRRZs in accordance with

   applicable seams agreements, coordination agreements, or transmission service agreements.

   Next, the Transmission Provider will then complete a feasibility analysis in accordance with the

   Resource Adequacy Business Practices Manual to review operational events from each

   Coincident Peak Demand hour during the previous Planning Year, and forecasted expected

   conditions for each Season in the upcoming Planning Year, to determine if a further reduction to

   the transfer limit is warranted for reliability. If such a reduction is necessary, the Transmission

   Provider will reduce the regional directional transfer limit, as appropriate. The Transmission

   Provider will then subtract the sum of Firm Transmission Service Reservations on the MISO

   OASIS that utilize the contract path between SRRZs and are exporting from or wheeling through

   the Transmission Provider’s Balancing Authority for the applicable Season in the Planning Year.

   This difference determines the SREC and SRIC to be utilized for the applicable Season in the

   Planning Year.

   Prior to publishing the SRRZs, SRECs, and SRICs on its public website, Transmission Provider

   will present the feasibility analysis and resulting SREC and SRIC calculation to stakeholders.




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                            68A.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Establishment of CIL and CEL Limits
MODULES                                                                                         40.0.0


   Establishment of CIL and CEL Limits

   On or before November 1st of each year, the Transmission Provider will determine preliminary

   values for the CIL and CEL for each of the LRZs for each Season in the following Planning Year

   by considering factors, including but not limited to, the following elements: (1) existing and

   planned Transmission System and Planning Resource additions; (2) transmission import and

   export capability; and (3) applicable NERC contingencies. To determine the CIL and CEL for

   each LRZ, the Transmission Provider will use models which contain the physical location of

   Load and Planning Resources for each Season. Generator output will be assigned to LRZs or

   ERZs consistent with the PRA representation of Planning Resources. Constraints that are

   identified as a result of determining the CIL and/or the CEL for each LRZ will be considered in

   the development of the MISO Transmission Expansion Plan (MTEP) in accordance with

   Attachment FF.

   CIL will be equal to the Zonal Import Ability plus firm capacity commitments to non-MISO

   load. CEL will be equal to the Zonal Export Ability minus firm capacity commitments to non-

   MISO load.

   The CIL and CEL values for each Season for each LRZ will be updated if needed prior to the

   Planning Resource Auction, but no later than eight (8) Business Days before the last Business

   Day in March, due to changes to firm capacity commitments from MISO resources to

   neighboring regions prior to the Planning Resource Auction.

   MISO will determine the CEL for each Season for each ERZ no later than eight (8) Business

   Days before the last Business Day in March as equal to the ZRC quantity of the External

   Resources registered to participate in the PRA.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                               68A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Establishment of Local Reliability Requirement
MODULES                                                                                            37.0.0


   Establishment of Local Reliability Requirement

   By November 1st prior to a Planning Year, the Transmission Provider will establish a Local

   Reliability Requirement (LRR) metric for each LRZ to determine the quantity of Unforced

   Capacity needed for each Season, without consideration of the benefit of the LRZ’s CIL. First,

   the LOLE analysis for the Planning Year will be conducted by either adding or removing

   capacity until the LOLE reaches 0.1 day per year for the LRZ. If the LOLE for the Planning

   Year is less than 0.1 day per year, a perfect negative unit with zero forced outage rate will be

   added until the LOLE reaches 0.1 day per year. If the LOLE for the Planning Year is greater than

   0.1 day per year, a perfect positive unit with zero forced outage rate will be added until the

   LOLE reaches 0.1 day per year. If the LOLE for a Season is equal to or greater than 0.01 day

   per year for the LRZ, the LRR for that Season will be calculated based on this LOLE analysis. If

   the LOLE for any Season is less than 0.01 day per year for the LRZ, an additional LOLE

   analysis will be performed to determine the LRR for that Season by adding a perfect negative

   unit with zero forced outage rate to that season until the LOLE in that Season reaches 0.01 day

   per year for the LRZ.

   The Transmission Provider will model the location of Load and Planning Resources based on

   their representation in the Planning Resource Auction to determine the LRR for each LRZ. The

   minimum amount of capacity above the Local Resource Zone Peak Demand in the LRZ required

   to meet the reliability criteria will be used to establish the LRR for each Season.

   The per unit LRR in each LRZ initially will be established as the ratio of the LRR over the Local

   Resource Zone Peak Demand modeled in the LOLE study. An LRZ’s LRR shall be calculated

   by multiplying the per unit LRR for the LRZ times the forecasted Local Resource Zone Peak




                                                                             Effective On: August 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         68A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                Establishment of Local Reliability Requirement
MODULES                                                                                      37.0.0


   Demand for each Season as provided by LSEs or EDCs, or as developed by the Transmission

   Provider, pursuant to Section 69A.1.




                                                                      Effective On: August 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            68A.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Establishment of Local Clearing Requirement
MODULES                                                                                         36.0.0


   Establishment of Local Clearing Requirement

   The Local Clearing Requirement for each LRZ for each Season will be determined by

   subtracting Zonal Import Ability and controllable exports from the LRR, as set forth in the

   Resource Adequacy Business Practices Manual. Controllable exports are exports from MISO

   resources that have firm capacity commitments to non-MISO load and that may be committed

   and dispatched by the Transmission Provider during a declared Energy Emergency. The LCR

   values will be updated if needed prior to the Planning Resource Auction due to changes in

   controllable exports.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                           68A.7
FERC Electric Tariff                               Establishing Planning Reserve Margin Requirements
MODULES                                                                                        35.0.0


   Establishing Planning Reserve Margin Requirements

   a.     The Transmission Provider will establish Planning Reserve Margin Requirements

   (PRMR) for each Season for an LSE’s Load within any given LRZ. The Initial PRMR will be

   determined by multiplying the LSE’s forecasted Coincident Peak Demand for each Season,

   including transmission losses, by (1 + Transmission Provider Region PRM).

   b.     The Transmission Provider will use the Transmission Provider Region PRM for the

   Initial PRMR calculation unless an alternate PRM is established by a State Regulatory Authority.

   In such event, the Transmission Provider will use the alternate PRM that a State Regulatory

   Authority has created for the geographic area in which the state has jurisdiction. The

   Transmission Provider will convert any State Regulatory Authority provided PRM to a

   comparable Unforced Capacity basis.




                                                                      Effective On: November 30, 2024
MISO                                                                                             68A.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Calculation of Transmission Losses
MODULES                                                                                          38.0.0


   Calculation of Transmission Losses

   a.     The Transmission Provider shall calculate the LBA transmission loss percentages for

   each Season using the process described as follows:

          1.     The Transmission Provider's State Estimator calculates transmission losses (MW)

                 as part of the solution output process every five (5) minutes.

          2.     The transmission losses (MW) are computed on all transmission lines and

                 transformers by summing up real power at both ends for each transmission

                 element (retaining the convention for flow direction) or as the difference in real

                 power (without the sign convention for flow direction) for each State Estimator

                 solution.

          3.     The individual transmission losses (MW) for each element are summed to a total

                 transmission values for each Local Balancing Authorities (LBA) level.

          4.     These LBA transmission loss values are then integrated across each hour to

                 calculate an hourly transmission loss value (MW) for each LBA.

          5.     The total transmission loss value (MW) for each LBA will be the hourly

                 integrated transmission losses value (MW) for the hour of the Coincident Peak

                 Demand from the calendar year two years prior to the upcoming Planning Year.

          6.     For the purposes of the Transmission Provider Region, the LBA transmission loss

                 percentages are calculated as the total LBA transmission losses divided by the

                 total LBA peak data at that MISO peak hour for each Season. For purposes of a

                 Local Resource Zone, the LBA transmission loss percentages are calculated as the

                 total LBA transmission losses divided by the total LBA peak data at the LRZ peak




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                            68A.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Calculation of Transmission Losses
MODULES                                                                                         38.0.0


                  hour for each Season.

   b.     The Local Balancing Authority (LBA) transmission loss percentage shall apply to the

   LSE's applicable LBA Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource Zone Peak Demand

   forecast to determine the LSE transmission losses. Behind-the-Meter-Generation Resources that

   are interconnected to the Transmission System and are not a ZG Resource shall be treated like

   other Resources with respect to transmission losses. Behind-the-Meter-Generation Resources

   that are not interconnected to the Transmission System, ZG Resources and Demand Resources

   shall be adjusted to account for serving load without incurring transmission losses by grossing up

   the MW quantity of such resources by (1.0 + the appropriate LBA transmission loss percentage).




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                             68A.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                          Marginal Reliability Impact (MRI) Curves
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   Marginal Reliability Impact (MRI) Curves

   A.     The following process will be used to determine the MRI Curves for the Transmission

          Provider Region for each Season of the upcoming Planning Year. The minimum PRM

          requirement for each Season established in the LOLE analysis, as described in Section

          68A.2, will be the starting point. Then, for each Season, a perfect negative unit(s) with a

          capacity of at least 50MW and no more than 250MW, or perfect proxy unit(s) with a

          capacity of at least 50MW and no more than 250MW will be added to the model and the

          LOLE analysis will be performed. The capacity of both the perfect negative unit(s) and

          perfect proxy unit(s) will be of equal value. The change in EUE as a result of adding or

          removing capacity will be calculated. An additional unit(s) with the same capacity value

          will be added or removed in addition to the first increment or decrement and the LOLE

          analysis will be performed again. This process will be repeated until sufficient data is

          available to fit a curve that measures changes to EUE as MWs are added or removed

          from the minimum PRM requirement.

   B.     The First Planning Area MRI Curve is a smoothed representation of reliability changes as

          measured by EUE as more or less MWs are included in the LOLE analysis. The

          following process will be used to determine the MRI Curves for the First Planning Area

          for each Season in the Planning Year. Assignment of LOLE risk across the Seasons will

          be the same as described in Section 68A.2 for the Planning Reserve Margin analysis. A

          minimum PRM requirement for the First Planning Area for each Season will be

          established through additional LOLE analysis in which the First Planning Area and

          Second Planning Area each have the same reliability target established for the




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                            68A.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Marginal Reliability Impact (MRI) Curves
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


          Transmission Provider Region as the starting point. After establishing the starting point,

          the MW quantity associated with the minimum PRM requirement in the Second Planning

          Area will be fixed, and capacity in the First Planning Area will then be added or removed

          to calculate changes to EUE in the First Planning Area.

   C.     The Second Planning Area MRI curve is a smoothed representation of reliability changes

          as measured by EUE as more or less MWs are included in the LOLE analysis. The

          following process will be used to determine the MRI Curves for the Second Planning

          Area for each Season in the Planning Year. Assignment of LOLE risk across the Seasons

          will be the same as described in Section 68A.2 for the Planning Reserve Margin analysis.

          A minimum PRM requirement for the Second Planning Area for each Season will be

          established through additional LOLE analysis in which the First Planning Area and

          Second Planning Area each have the same reliability target established for the

          Transmission Provider Region as the starting point. After establishing the starting point,

          the MW quantity associated with the minimum PRM requirement in the First Planning

          Area will be fixed, and capacity in the Second Planning Area will then be added or

          removed to calculate changes to EUE in the Second Planning Area.




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                             69A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      RAR Process
MODULES                                                                                        37.0.0


   RAR Process

   Once the Transmission Provider has established the PRM, LCR, LRR, preliminary Capacity

   Import Limits and Capacity Export Limits and published such values on the Transmission

   Provider’s website, then LSEs shall provide forecasted Coincident Peak Demand and Local

   Resource Zone Peak Demand data for the Planning Year. For Retail Choice areas, the EDC shall

   provide, on behalf of LSEs within the EDC, forecasted Coincident Peak Demand and Local

   Resource Zone Peak Demand data for the Planning Year to be used by the Transmission

   Provider. The Transmission Provider will then calculate each LSE’s Initial PRMR for each

   Season. LSEs will meet their RAR obligation by: (i) submitting a Fixed Resource Adequacy

   Plan; (ii) submitting ZRCs for an RBDC Opt Out; (iii) Self-Scheduling ZRCs; (iv) purchasing

   ZRCs through the Planning Resource Auction process; and/or (v) paying the Capacity

   Deficiency Charge to meet a portion of their PRMR. LSEs that submit an RBDC Opt Out may

   not use any of the other options to satisfy their Final PRMR. LSEs not submitting an RBDC Opt

   Out may use one or more of all other available options, or any combination of available options,

   to satisfy their Initial or Final PRMR. The Transmission Provider will enforce the LCRs, final

   Capacity Import Limits and Capacity Export Limits for each LRZ, and Capacity Export Limits

   for each ERZ in the Planning Resource Auction. An ACP will be determined through the PRA

   process for each LRZ and ERZ for each Season and the ACP will be used to credit ZRCs that

   clear in the auction and to debit LSEs for the volume of their PRMR that is procured through the

   auction. Market Participants that own Planning Resources used to create ZRCs which clear in

   the PRA (or are identified in either a submitted Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan or an RBDC Opt

   Out) must meet the applicable performance requirements as described in sections 69A.3.9 and




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                               69A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        RAR Process
MODULES                                                                                          37.0.0


   69A.5. The Transmission Provider shall provide states, upon request, with relevant resource

   adequacy information as available, subject to the data confidentiality provisions in Section 38.9

   of the Tariff.




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              69A.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Load Serving Entity Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                          35.0.0


   Load Serving Entity Responsibilities

   a.     LSEs shall provide Coincident Peak Demand (and also, if available, Local Resource Zone

   Peak Demand forecasts) forecasts as specified in Section 69A.1.1b and will also be responsible

   for meeting their Final PRMR for each LRZ where they serve Load by submitting Fixed

   Resource Adequacy Plans, by Self-Scheduling ZRCs, by purchasing ZRCs through the PRA

   process, by submitting ZRCs for an RBDC Opt Out and/or by paying the Capacity Deficiency

   Charge.

   b.     The Transmission Provider will use Coincident Peak Demand, Local Resource Zone Peak

   Demand, and Energy forecasts for each Season that are submitted by an EDC in combination

   with allocation procedures that are agreed to by the applicable LSEs. These procedures will

   allow the Transmission Provider to initially allocate appropriate portions of the total forecasted

   Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource Zone Peak Demand to each LSE as applicable

   pursuant to 69A.1.2.1, and to re-assign ZRC-related charges caused by customer switching

   between suppliers to the appropriate LSE.

   c.     All LSEs shall report to the Transmission Provider, through the MECT, whether such

   LSE will meet their PRMR for each LRZ for each Season in which the LSE serves Load by: (i)

   submitting a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan; (ii) Self-Scheduling ZRCs; (iii) purchasing ZRCs

   through the Planning Resource Auction process; (iv) submitting an RBDC Opt Out; and/or, (v)

   paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge.




                                                                               Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                         69A.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Forecasted Demand Identification
MODULES                                                                                         40.0.0


   Forecasted Demand Identification

   a.     The Demand forecasts required in Section 69A.1 shall include: (1) the Coincident Peak

   Demand within each LBA Area in the Transmission Provider Region for the upcoming Planning

   Year; (2) the monthly non-coincident peak Demand and net Energy for Load within each LBA

   Area, for the upcoming Planning Year and the following Planning Year; (3) the non-coincident

   peak Demand and net Energy for Load within each LBA Area, for each Season, for the eight

   Planning Years subsequent to the two for which monthly values are provided in (2); and (4) the

   available Local Resource Zone Peak Demand within each LBA Area in the Local Resource Zone

   for the upcoming Planning Year. All of these forecasts shall be submitted by November 1st prior

   to each Planning Year and shall be consistent with Good Utility Practice. Forecast providers

   shall use the MECT or other means described in the BPM for Resource Adequacy to submit the

   requisite information. Details regarding the items required in the Demand forecasts submittal are

   in the BPM for Resource Adequacy.

   b.     The supplied Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource Zone Peak Demand forecasts

   shall include the Demand expected for the forecast time period (e.g. the Coincident Peak

   Demand hour) augmented to include the normal Demand from forecasted demand resources,

   whether registered or not registered with the Transmission Provider, including Demand from any

   retail demand side management programs. The Coincident Peak Demand forecast shall identify,

   in MW, the expected contribution of each ZG Associated Load and identify its associated ZG

   Resource. A ZG Resource is ineligible for Seasonal Accredited Capacity unless its ZG

   Associated Load is explicitly identified in the Coincident Peak Demand forecast. Such forecasts

   may include Demand reductions achieved by energy efficiency programs that will be fully




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Forecasted Demand Identification
MODULES                                                                                          40.0.0


   implemented prior to the start of the Planning Year. Energy efficiency programs are installed

   measures on retail customer facilities that achieve a permanent reduction in electric Energy

   usage while maintaining a comparable quality of service and must comply with the guidelines set

   forth in the BPM for Resource Adequacy. Energy efficiency program effects included in the

   load forecast must follow state and RERRA regulations and measurement and verification

   requirements, as applicable. All submissions for such forecast values shall include distribution

   losses, but not transmission losses. The Transmission Provider will be responsible for the

   calculation of the applicable transmission losses for the forecasts provided and for annually

   publishing such values for each LBA on its website by October 1, as specified in Section 68A.8

   and the BPM for Resource Adequacy.

   c.     In order to assist with the development of the Coincident Peak Demand and Local

   Resource Zone Peak Demand forecasts, the Transmission Provider will make available the

   historical monthly peak hours for each of the four months June through September, since 2005,

   or as available, for the Transmission Provider Region and for each Local Resource Zone. On or

   before March 1st of each year, the Transmission Provider will review a sampling of submitted

   Demand forecast methodologies and inputs to ensure accuracy and consistency, in accordance

   with the BPM for Resource Adequacy. If the Transmission Provider determines that the

   Demand forecast methodologies are inaccurate or inconsistent, the Transmission Provider shall

   work with the applicable LSEs to reconcile such issues. If reconciliation is not achieved, or if

   Local Resource Zone Peak Demand forecasts are not available, then the Transmission Provider

   will provide the required forecast values.

   d.     All Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource Zone Peak Demand forecasts shall




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                        69A.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Forecasted Demand Identification
MODULES                                                                                        40.0.0


   reflect a 50% probability that the Demand will not exceed the forecasted Demand for the

   relevant period.

   e.     Consistent with Section 69A.1.2.1, the EDC must provide both the Transmission

   Provider and the respective LSEs with each retail customer’s peak load contribution (“PLC”) in

   each Season, including transmission losses and PRM as determined by the Transmission

   Provider, in the EDC’s service territory by December 15th. At least five (5) Business Days

   before January 15, LSEs must notify the EDC and the Transmission Provider if they disagree

   with the EDC calculated PLC value.

   f.     If an LSE knows it will gain a wholesale customer by the beginning of any Season in the

   next Planning Year, then that LSE may provide the Transmission Provider with the Coincident

   Peak Demand and the Local Resource Zone Peak Demand forecast for such acquired load by

   November 1. In all other cases, the existing Market Participant serving such wholesale customer

   shall provide the Transmission Provider by November 1st with the Market Participant’s forecast

   of the wholesale customer’s Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource Zone Peak Demand.




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                      69A.1.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                   Accounting for Total Demand Forecasts Given Wholesale and Re
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


   Accounting for Total Demand Forecasts Given Wholesale and Retail Load Switching

   a.     On or before January 15th, an EDC must notify the Transmission Provider through the

   MECT of the Initial PRMR for the LSE’s proportion of the EDC’s forecast Demand that it

   expects to serve on the 1st day of each Season in the next Planning Year. The LSE that is the

   provider of last resort (“POLR”) for the EDC area in question will have the obligation to procure

   capacity for the required PRMR for the remaining Demand (i.e., the remaining Demand is the

   EDC’s forecast Coincident Peak Demand minus the sum of the LSE’s allocated portion of

   forecast Coincident Peak Demand, identified as described above, in the EDC’s service territory).

   The Transmission Provider will notify the POLRs of any remaining Initial PRMR within five (5)

   Business Days after January 15th.

   b.     On or before January 15th, to account for wholesale customers that may switch LSEs

   during the next Planning Year, the PRMR will be met as follows: (1) if an LSE has

   responsibility to serve a wholesale load on the 1st day of any Season in of the next Planning

   Year, then such LSE shall have the obligation to procure the required PRMR for such load for

   such Season; (2) if no LSE has responsibility for serving a wholesale load on of the 1st day of

   any Season in of the next Planning Year, then the LSE with an obligation to serve such load on

   November 1 before the Planning Year, shall have the obligation to procure capacity for the

   required PRMR for each Season in the upcoming Planning Year for such load, provided that

   such LSE anticipates that the contract for wholesale load will be extended; or (3) if the LSE

   advises the Transmission Provider that the LSE will not serve the contract for wholesale load,

   then the customer for such wholesale load shall inform the Transmission Provider by January




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                     69A.1.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                  Accounting for Total Demand Forecasts Given Wholesale and Re
MODULES                                                                                      35.0.0


   30th of the name of the Market Participant that will be responsible for the PRMR obligation for

   such wholesale load.




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                       69A.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff                         Daily Assignment of Coincident Peak Demand Obligations
MODULES                                                                                      36.0.0


   Daily Assignment of Coincident Peak Demand Obligations

   a.     For those areas of service where an LSE’s Coincident Peak Demand forecast is included

   in the Coincident Peak Demand forecast submission of an EDC, the EDC will determine and

   report each LSE’s portion of such Demand to the Transmission Provider, using the default

   method set forth in Section 69A.1.2.1.

   b.     In a state that permits retail load switching, the Transmission Provider shall allocate

   resource capacity costs on a daily basis to LSEs by multiplying the Final PRMR associated with

   identified customers served by the LSE times the applicable zonal Auction Clearing Price less

   any zonal deliverability benefits plus any Local Clearing Requirement Charges for the Local

   Resource Zone where the load is located, consistent with Section 69A.1.2.1.

   c.     In states where wholesale load may switch, the Transmission Provider shall allocate costs

   on a daily basis to LSEs. The LSE that acquires wholesale load will be charged for such load

   based upon the Final PRMR for the wholesale load’s forecast Coincident Peak Demand times the

   applicable zonal Auction Clearing Price less any zonal deliverability benefits plus any Local

   Clearing Requirement Charges for the Local Resource Zone where the wholesale load is located.

   d.     An LSE may challenge the EDC Demand forecast under the dispute resolution

   procedures pursuant to Section 12 or it may refer the dispute to the Commission for resolution.




                                                                               Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                          69A.1.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     Default Method
MODULES                                                                                           36.0.0


   Default Method

   a.     The method submitted by an EDC must describe in detail the procedures and data used to

   determine the assignment of the EDC's forecast Coincident Peak Demand to its retail customers,

   including those served by LSEs providing service within the EDC's area.

   b.     EDC will assign a peak load contribution ("PLC") value to each retail customer, based on

   the most recent PLC values derived for each Season from each retail customer's Demand at the

   time of the Transmission Provider's peak Demand during each Season (i.e., the Prior Seasonal

   Retail Customer Coincident Peak ("PSRCCP")). Retail customer peak demands should be

   increased to reflect any load reductions achieved and for which capacity credits are earned, either

   through retail programs or participation in wholesale markets (e.g. LMRs). In the aggregate, the

   PLCs determined by the EDC must equal the Initial PRMR that is calculated from the forecast

   Coincident Peak Demand provided by the EDC for each Season. This equality is achieved by

   multiplying each retail customer's demand at the time of the Transmission Provider's peak

   Demand during each Season prior to the Planning Year by the same adjustment factor, as shown

   in the equation below:

                                              i PLCi = Initial PRMREDC

                                      Factor = Initial PRMR EDC ÷ i PSRCCPi

   In other words, for each EDC, the sum of the individual retail customer (i.e., i) PLC values must

   equal the EDC’s Initial PRMR. In addition, a single value (“Factor”) is defined as the ratio of

   the Initial PRMR for any EDC divided by the sum of all of the PSRCCP values for each of the

   EDC’s retail customers. The EDC must use the same Factor in the following equation:

                            PLCi = Factor x PSRCCPi i




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            69A.1.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                       Default Method
MODULES                                                                                             36.0.0


   Thus, for each EDC it must also be true that the PLC for any individual retail customer shall be

   equal to the product of that customer’s PSRCCP times the same Factor identified in the second

   equation above. For the purposes of these equations, the following mathematical symbols are

   used: (1) Σ equals sum; (2) i equals individual retail customer, as in PLC i or PSRCCPi ; and (3)

   i equals for all i, as in: for each member of the set of retail customers.

   c.     The PSRCCP shall be adjusted (upward) to reflect any demand that was reduced during

   the Coincident Peak for each Season hour through the effect of a Load Modifying Resource. The

   Transmission Provider will provide to the EDC the amount of measured (or estimated if final

   settlement data is forthcoming) load reduction that occurred as a result of an ARC or LSE

   deploying a DRR, LMR or EDR following a Setpoint Instruction, Scheduling Instruction or EDR

   Dispatch Instruction during the Transmission Provider’s Coincident Peak Demand.




                                                                                 Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                   69A.1.2.2
FERC Electric Tariff                [RESERVED]
MODULES                                   31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                        69A.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Load Switching
MODULES                                                                                       34.0.0


   Load Switching

   Beginning the first Calendar Day of each Season in the Planning Year, the EDC will be

   responsible for tracking the individual customer Final PRMR values transferred from the

   originally supplying LSE to the newly supplying LSE now responsible for resource adequacy

   commitments.




                                                                           Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                      69A.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Forecasted Demand for FRP/FRS Agreements
MODULES                                                                                     32.0.0


   Forecasted Demand for FRP/FRS Agreements

   Full Responsibility Purchases/Sales (FRP/FRS) agreements are treated effectively like a transfer

   of Demand and all RAR obligations from one LSE to another Market Participant. An LSE

   electing to use an FRP/FRS agreement for any Season must submit the FRP/FRS agreement to

   the Transmission Provider by the 5th Business Day of February prior to a Planning Year in order

   for the LSE to demonstrate that the LSE has sufficiently designated its demand obligations to

   meet all or any portion of the LSE’s Initial demand for such LRZ. A purchaser under an

   FRP/FRS agreement shall submit the forecasted Coincident Peak Demand and Local Resource

   Zone Peak Demand associated with such agreement to the Transmission Provider through the

   MECT for the applicable Planning Year. A seller under an FRP/FRS agreement is contractually

   obligated to comply with all of the RAR obligations for the transferred Demand during the

   Planning Year encompassing the planned Coincident Peak Demand. The purchaser under an

   FRP/FRS agreement no longer has the RAR obligations for the transferred Demand; provided

   however, that if the seller under an FRP/FRS agreement is not an LSE under the jurisdiction of

   the Transmission Provider, then the purchaser under the FRP/FRS agreement will remain

   responsible for any RAR obligations associated with the Demand transferred under the FRP/FRS

   agreement. A seller under an FRP/FRS agreement will be responsible for the transferred

   Demand to meet this additional obligation like it was their own Demand. If a seller and a

   purchaser under an FRP/FRS agreement cannot agree on whether a particular transaction is an

   FRP/FRS agreement, then either party may invoke the dispute resolution procedures in Section

   12 of the Tariff.




                                                                            Effective On: April 6, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Multiple Region Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   Multiple Region Planning Resources

   If an LSE serves Demand both in the Transmission Provider Region and outside the

   Transmission Provider Region, then the LSE must separately satisfy its Final PRMR in all areas

   of the Transmission Provider Region. Compliance with RAR shall not affect an LSE’s

   obligation to maintain distinct and separate amounts of resources to cover its applicable planning

   reserve obligation for the amount of Demand outside the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              69A.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Capacity Tracking Tool
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   Capacity Tracking Tool



   To facilitate RAR, the Transmission Provider shall administer the MECT, a title tracking and

   registration tool that shall include the ability to enable Market Participants and LSEs to meet

   their RAR responsibilities.




                                                                             Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                            69A.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Planning Resource Requirements
MODULES                                                                                         33.0.0


   Planning Resource Requirements

   Nothing herein shall infringe upon the requirement that LSEs comply with applicable state safety

   standards, planning reserve margins, or be subject to the enforcement thereof. If the

   Transmission Provider becomes aware that any Planning Resource fails to meet the requirements

   of this section, then the Transmission Provider shall promptly notify the Market Participant and

   specify the reasons for any such failure. Wherever possible, the Transmission Provider and the

   Market Participant will work in good faith to remedy deficiencies, if any, in meeting the

   Planning Resource requirements, through informal communications rather than Commission

   filings.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Capacity Resources
MODULES                                                                                         43.0.0


   Capacity Resources

   As described below, a Generation Resource, External Resource, Demand Response Resource -

   Type II, Intermittent Generation, Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, Electric Storage Resource,

   or Hybrid Resource is eligible to become a Capacity Resource. The Transmission Provider will

   qualify a Capacity Resource for any applicable Season in the upcoming Planning Year, in

   accordance with processes specified in the BPM for Resource Adequacy. Electric Storage

   Resources can be Capacity Resources if they meet all the requirements as specified in the BPM

   for Resource Adequacy, including the requirement to be able to continuously discharge for a

   minimum set of four (4) consecutive operating Hours across the Transmission Provider’s

   coincident peak for each day, in accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy, provided that

   an Electric Storage Resource may de-rate its capacity in order to comply with this requirement.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.1.a
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent
MODULES                                                                                         44.0.0


   Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent Resources

   1.     Generation Resources and Electric Storage Resources that are not Dispatchable

          Intermittent Resources are eligible to qualify as Capacity Resources by a Market

          Participant that possesses ownership or equivalent contractual rights for the Resource by:

          (a) registering such resource with the Transmission Provider as documented in the BPM

          for Market Registration;

          (b) demonstrating GVTC capability for each Season in the Planning Year as established

          in the BPM for Resource Adequacy;

          (c) submitting generator availability data (including, but not limited to, NERC Generation

          Availability Data System (GADS) information) into a database provided by the

          Transmission Provider and as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy;

          (d) by submitting the GVTC results to the Transmission Provider no later than September

          30 prior to such Planning Year for existing Capacity Resources unless the Transmission

          Provider has granted an extension pursuant to Section 69A.3.1.a.4; and

          (e) demonstrating deliverability as described in Section 69A.3.1(g). All new Generation

          Resources and Electric Storage Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent

          Resources, or an existing Generation Resource and Electric Storage Resource that is not a

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource that has an increased installed capacity, shall submit

          their GVTC to the Transmission Provider prior to qualification, but no later than March 1

          prior to the PRA, as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy.

   2.     Installed Capacity (ICAP) Deferral




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.1.a
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent
MODULES                                                                                         44.0.0


          If a Market Participant for a Generation Resource and Electric Storage Resource that is

          not a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource (including a Generation Resource and Electric

          Storage Resource that has the status of Suspend pursuant to Section 38.2.7) has not

          completed GVTC testing by the deadlines provided in 69A.3.1.a.1, is not expected to

          demonstrate deliverability, or is otherwise not expected to demonstrate commercial

          operation prior to March 1, ZRCs from such capacity may be used in the PRA or in a

          FRAP (including through bilateral ZRC transactions), subject to the notification, credit,

          and non-compliance provisions of Section 69A.7.9.

   3.     Reporting generator availability data based on GVTC is not required for a Generation

          Resource or Electric Storage Resource that is not a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource

          and that is less than 10 MW if the Market Participant has never provided such data for

          such Resource. A Market Participant that begins reporting generator availability data

          based on GVTC for a Generation Resource or Electric Storage Resource that is not a

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resource and that is less than 10 MW must continue to report

          such data. A Generation Resource or Electric Storage Resource that has provisional

          Interconnection Service may qualify as a Capacity Resource as documented in the BPM

          for Resource Adequacy.

   4.     A Market Participant for a Generation Resource required to submit GVTC results must

          use Reasonable Efforts to submit GVTC by September 30 prior to the upcoming Planning

          Year. If circumstances prevent the Market Participant from submitting the GVTC results

          for the Generation Resource by September 30, the Market Participant must notify the

          Transmission Provider no later than five (5) Business Days after September 30 and




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.1.a
FERC Electric Tariff                        Generation Resources that are not Dispatchable Intermittent
MODULES                                                                                         44.0.0


          request an extension. The extension request must include a reasonable explanation and

          justification for missing the deadline and an expected completion date prior to the

          upcoming Planning Year. The Transmission Provider will review each extension request

          on a case by case basis to determine whether or not to approve or deny the request to

          extend the GVTC deadline. Denial of an extension will not preclude the Market

          Participant for the Generation Resource from utilizing the ICAP Deferral process as

          described in Section 69A.7.9.




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                       69A.3.1.b
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Demand Response Resources:
MODULES                                                                                       40.0.0


   Demand Response Resources:

       1. Demand Response Resources - Type I and DRR - Type II are eligible to qualify as

          Capacity Resources by a Market Participant that possesses ownership or equivalent

          contractual rights in the DRR by registering such resources as Capacity Resources with

          the Transmission Provider as documented in the BPM for Market Registration. A DRR -

          Type-I or a DRR - Type-II that interrupts or controls Demand registering for the PRA

          shall demonstrate capability and availability to reduce demand in response to instructions

          from the Transmission Provider for each applicable Season and shall submit such data to

          the Transmission Provider, as established in Section 69A.3.5.j. A Market Participant that

          wants to qualify a DRR - Type II that is a behind the meter generation facility as a

          Capacity Resource shall: (i) demonstrate GVTC capability for each Season in the

          Planning Year as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy; (ii) submit GVTC

          results to the Transmission Provider no later than September 30 prior to such Planning

          Year for existing Capacity Resources unless the Transmission Provider has granted an

          extension pursuant to Section 69A.3.1.b.4; and (iii) submit generator availability data

          (including, but not limited to, NERC Generation Availability Data System information)

          into a database provided by the Transmission Provider. A Market Participant that wants

          to qualify a new DRR or an existing DRR that has an increased installed capacity that is a

          behind the meter generator as a Capacity Resource shall submit GVTC data to the

          Transmission Provider prior to qualification, but no later than March 1 prior to the PRA,

          as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy.




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        69A.3.1.b
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Demand Response Resources:
MODULES                                                                                        40.0.0


       2. Installed Capacity (ICAP) Deferral

          If a Market Participant for a DRR has not completed GVTC testing by the deadlines

          provided in 69A.3.1.b.1, is not expected to demonstrate deliverability, or is otherwise not

          expected to demonstrate commercial operation prior to March 1, ZRCs from such

          capacity may be used in the PRA, in a FRAP (including through bilateral ZRC

          transactions), or in an RBDC Opt Out (including through bilateral ZRC transactions)

          subject to the notification, credit, and non-compliance provisions of Section 69A.7.9.

       3. Reporting generator availability data based on GVTC is not required for a DRR behind

          the meter generation facility of less than 10 MW if the Market Participant has never

          provided such data for such behind the meter generation facility. A Market Participant

          that begins reporting generator availability data for a behind the meter generation facility

          that is less than 10 MW based on GVTC must continue to report such data. A Demand

          Response Resource that has provisional Interconnection Service may qualify as a

          Capacity Resource as documented in the BPM for Resource Adequacy. In accordance

          with the qualification provisions in the BPM for Resource Adequacy, the Transmission

          Provider will qualify a Demand Response Resource for the applicable Season in the

          upcoming Planning Year.

       4. A Market Participant for a DRR required to submit GVTC results must use Reasonable

          Efforts to submit GVTC by September 30 prior to the upcoming Planning Year. If

          circumstances prevent the Market Participant from submitting the GVTC results for the

          DRR by September 30, the Market Participant must notify the Transmission Provider no

          later than five (5) Business Days after September 30 and request an extension. The




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                      69A.3.1.b
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Demand Response Resources:
MODULES                                                                                      40.0.0


          extension request must include a reasonable explanation and justification for missing the

          deadline and an expected completion date prior to the upcoming Planning Year. The

          Transmission Provider will review each extension request on a case by case basis to

          determine whether or not to approve or deny the request to extend the GVTC deadline.

          Denial of an extension will not preclude the Market Participant for the DRR from

          utilizing the ICAP Deferral process as described in Section 69A.7.9.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                            69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                            42.0.0


   External Resources:

   1.     External Resources, including those specified in Diversity Contracts and PPAs (which are

          subject to additional qualification requirements in section 69A.3.1.c.4), are eligible to

          qualify as Capacity Resources by a Market Participant that possesses ownership or

          equivalent contractual rights in External Resources by: (a) registering such resources

          with the Transmission Provider as documented in the BPM for Resource Adequacy; (b)

          demonstrating GVTC capability for each Season that the resource will be registered in as

          established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy by providing operational data, and by

          submitting the GVTC results to the Transmission Provider no later than September 30

          prior to such Planning Year for existing Capacity Resources unless the Transmission

          Provider has granted an extension pursuant to Section 69A.3.1.c.5; (c) submitting

          generator availability data (including, but not limited to, NERC Generation Availability

          Data System information) into a database provided by the Transmission Provider and as

          established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy; (d) identifying one or more specific

          External Resource(s) that can be verified by the Transmission Provider as Capacity

          Resource(s) and which does not include any portion(s) of an External Resource that has

          already qualified as a Capacity Resource; (e) demonstrating that there is firm

          transmission service for each Season that the resource is to be registered in from the

          External Resource to the border interface CPNode of the Transmission Provider Region

          and either that firm Transmission Service has been obtained to deliver capacity on the

          Transmission System from the border to a Load within an LRZ or demonstrating

          deliverability as described in Section 69A.3.1.g; and (f) certifying that any External




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                           42.0.0


          Resources being identified are not otherwise being used as capacity resources in any

          other RTO/ISO, in another resource adequacy construct, or in an external balancing

          authority’s resource plan for its firm end-use load and capacity sales requirements within

          the external balancing authority area.

   2.     Installed Capacity (ICAP) Deferral

          If a Market Participant for an External Resource has not completed GVTC testing by the

          deadlines provided in 69A.3.1.c.1, is not expected to demonstrate deliverability, or is

          otherwise not expected to demonstrate commercial operation prior to March 1, ZRCs

          from such capacity may be used in the PRA, in a FRAP (including through bilateral ZRC

          transactions), or in an RBDC Opt Out (including through bilateral ZRC transactions)

          subject to the notification, credit, and non-compliance provisions of Section 69A.7.9.

   3.     Reporting generator availability data for an External Resource of less than 10 MW based

          upon GVTC is not required if the Market Participant has never provided such data for

          such External Resource. A Market Participant that begins reporting generator availability

          data for an External Resource that is less than 10 MW based on GVTC must continue to

          report such data. All new External Resources or an existing External Resource that has

          an increased installed capacity shall submit their GVTC to the Transmission Provider

          prior to qualification as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy. In accordance

          with the qualification provisions in the BPM for Resource Adequacy, the Transmission

          Provider will qualify an External Resource for the applicable Season in the upcoming

          Planning Year.




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                          42.0.0


   4.     In the case of a power purchase agreement (PPA), including, but not limited to a

          Diversity Contract, then the agreement shall meet the additional qualification

          requirements set forth below:

          i.     A PPA that does not identify the full Installed Capacity of the External Resource

                 from which power will be supplied must specify the portions of each such

                 External Resource that is available under the PPA (i.e. slice-of-system resources)

                 and that are verifiable by the Transmission Provider. Each External Resource

                 specified in such PPA must meet the criteria for a Capacity Resource for all of the

                 portion of the contract amount assigned to the External Resource(s). The capacity

                 from the External Resource will be reduced proportionately to remove amounts

                 that fail to meet such criteria.

          ii.    A copy of every PPA must be provided by the Market Participant using External

                 Resources from such PPA as a Capacity Resource to the Transmission Provider to

                 enable it to verify the External Resource(s) that are backing the PPA and to

                 confirm compliance with RAR. Any redacted versions of a PPA submitted by a

                 Market Participant must contain sufficient information to allow the Transmission

                 Provider to verify compliance with RAR. The Transmission Provider will

                 maintain the confidentiality of these agreements in accordance with the

                 confidentiality provisions in Section 38.9 of the Tariff.

          iii.   For PPAs executed after April 3, 2014, one of the following must apply regarding

                 the external balancing authority in which the External Resource is located:




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                            69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                            42.0.0


                 (a) In the case of unit specific sales, if the MISO Balancing Authority Area is

                 experiencing an Energy Emergency, the external balancing authority will not

                 interrupt the PPA Schedule from the External Resource unless the generator being

                 used to serve the unit specific sale has a forced outage.

                 (b) In the case of slice-of-system sales, if the external balancing authority area

                 experiences an Energy Emergency and the MISO Balancing Authority Area is

                 simultaneously experiencing an Energy Emergency, the external balancing

                 authority will only interrupt the PPA Schedule on a pro rata basis with the

                 shedding of firm end-use load in the external balancing authority area. Pro rata

                 interruption of the PPA Schedule from the External Resource will be determined

                 as the ratio of the PPA Schedule to the sum of the external balancing authority

                 firm end-use load plus the PPA Schedule. (c) If the external balancing authority

                 (1) is located within the Transmission Provider’s reliability coordinator area; (2)

                 participates in a contingency reserve sharing group with the Transmission

                 Provider; and (3) has a Seams Operating Agreement with the Transmission

                 Provider containing the following features, then in the event that the external

                 balancing authority area experiences an Energy Emergency and the MISO

                 Balancing Authority Area is simultaneously experiencing an Energy Emergency,

                 the Transmission Provider and the external balancing authority will share

                 interruption of PPA Schedules from an External Resource and load shedding in

                 the external balancing authority area on a pro rata basis in proportion to the end-

                 use load in the area under the Energy Emergency. Pro rata sharing shall be




                                                                       Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                             69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                             42.0.0


                 determined as the respective ratio of each of the balancing authority’s end-use

                 load in the Energy Emergency Area divided by the sum of the end-use load of

                 each balancing authority in the Energy Emergency Area. The Seams Operating

                 Agreement must (1) ensure that the external balancing authority has established a

                 planning reserve margin and qualifications for planning resources using processes

                 and criteria comparable to the Transmission Provider; (2) specify the actions that

                 will be taken by both entities during an Energy Emergency prior to implementing

                 firm end-use load shedding, and (3) specify that the external balancing authority

                 will submit end-use load estimates to the Transmission Provider in a comparable

                 manner as submitted by Load entities in Module E-1, provide generator GVTC

                 and GADS data for all resources used to serve firm requirements of the external

                 balancing authority, and provide transparency in the form of submittal of fixed

                 resource plans comparable to processes used by Market Participants for Fixed

                 Resource Adequacy Plans in the Transmission Provider’s Module E-1.

          iv.    A PPA executed prior to April 3, 2014 will continue to qualify as a Planning

                 Resource for the full term of the PPA if it is only interruptible as a last resort

                 under Requirement 2 of NERC Standard EOP-011-1. A Diversity Contract

                 executed prior to April 3, 2014 will continue to qualify as a Planning Resource, if

                 it is only interruptible as a last resort under Requirement 2 of the NERC Standard

                 EOP-011-1 between June 1st and September 30th.




                                                                        Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                           42.0.0


          v.     A Market Participant may only qualify a PPA as a Capacity Resource if such

                 agreement establishes a firm obligation on the part of the seller of the Capacity to

                 deliver the Capacity to the Market Participant.

          vi.    If the terms and conditions in a PPA do not explicitly conform with every

                 requirement of Section 69A.3.1.c. 4 (i) through (iv) above, the Transmission

                 Provider will use alternative documentation and verification procedures to

                 determine if the PPA qualifies as a Capacity Resource. A party seeking Capacity

                 Resource status for a non-conforming PPA must provide the Transmission

                 Provider with written information regarding whether: (a) the PPA was executed

                 prior to October 20, 2008; (b) an RE has accredited the PPA to satisfy resource

                 adequacy requirement provisions; (c) the PPA has provided reliable capacity to

                 the Transmission Provider Region; (d) the supplier(s) of capacity in the PPA

                 commit(s) to provide the capacity to an LSE in the Transmission Provider Region

                 in a defined amount at a defined location based upon the supplier(s)’ portfolio of

                 generation assets; (e) energy from the PPA cannot be interrupted for economic

                 reasons and will only be interrupted for force majeure type conditions as a last

                 resort during Emergency conditions; (f) either the purchaser(s) or the supplier(s)

                 of capacity in the PPA has committed to offer energy into the Day-Ahead Energy

                 and Operating Reserves Market and all pre-Day-Ahead and the first post Day-

                 Ahead Reliability Assessment Commitment processes for all periods for which

                 energy is available under the PPA, consistent with the must offer provisions in

                 Section 69A.5; (g) the physical resource(s) backing the PPA are identified by the




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                           42.0.0


                 supplier of the PPA; (h) the portion of the physical resources backing the PPA has

                 not otherwise been registered by any other entity as Capacity Resources in the

                 Transmission Provider Region or as capacity resources in any other region; and (i)

                 if the PPA is renewed, the PPA will be modified to comply with the terms of

                 section 69A.3.1.c. 4 (i) through (iv) and (vi). The Transmission Provider will

                 analyze all available alternative documentation and verification information.

                 Based upon such analysis, the Transmission Provider will inform the party

                 seeking Capacity Resource status for the PPA within 30 days whether the PPA

                 qualifies as a Capacity Resource.

          vii.   No PPA may be qualified as a Capacity Resource if such agreement includes

                 provisions permitting the seller to interrupt deliveries thereunder for reasons other

                 than Force Majeure.

   5.     A Market Participant for an External Resource required to submit GVTC results must use

          Reasonable Efforts to submit GVTC by September 30 prior to the upcoming Planning

          Year. If circumstances prevent the Market Participant from submitting the GVTC results

          for the External Resource by September 30, the Market Participant must notify the

          Transmission Provider no later than five (5) Business Days after September 30 and

          request an extension. The extension request must include a reasonable explanation and

          justification for missing the deadline and an expected completion date prior to the

          upcoming Planning Year. The Transmission Provider will review each extension request

          on a case by case basis to determine whether or not to approve or deny the request to

          extend the GVTC deadline. Denial of an extension will not preclude the Market




                                                                      Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1.c
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                External Resources:
MODULES                                                                                          42.0.0


          Participant for the External Resource from utilizing the ICAP Deferral process as

          described in Section 69A.7.9.

   6.     Existing Resources that modify their registration, scheduling and market participation in

          the Energy and Operating Reserves Markets and become pseudo-tied External Resources

          after September 1, 2022 will be accredited at the lesser of class average SAC in Schedule

          53 or the accreditation provisions governing External Resources in section 69A.4.1.b.




                                                                     Effective On: September 30, 2025
MISO                                                                                        69A.3.1.d
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Use Limited Resources
MODULES                                                                                        35.0.0


   Use Limited Resources

   The Market Participant shall identify eligible Generation Resources, Electric Storage Resources,

   Distributed Energy Aggregated Resources or External Resources to the Transmission Provider

   that are Use Limited Resources. The Market Participant that seeks to qualify a Generation

   Resource, Distributed Energy Aggregated Resource or External Resource as a Use Limited

   Resource under RAR shall meet all the requirements as specified in the BPM for Resource

   Adequacy. A Use Limited Resource must be able to operate for a minimum set of four (4)

   consecutive operating Hours across the Transmission Provider’s coincident peak for each day in

   each applicable Season in order to qualify as a Capacity Resource, in accordance with the BPM

   for Resource Adequacy.




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1.e
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Intermittent Generation and Dispatchable Intermitt
MODULES                                                                                           34.0.0


   Intermittent Generation, Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, and Distributed Energy

   Aggregated Resources

   Intermittent Generation, Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, and Distributed Energy

   Aggregated Resources are resources that are eligible to qualify as a Capacity Resource by a

   Market Participant provided that the Market Participant: (a) possesses ownership or equivalent

   contractual rights for the resource; (b) supplies historical performance data or required

   documentation for the resource as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy; and (c)

   registers the resource with the Transmission Provider in accordance with the BPM for Market

   Registration (if the resource is located within the MISO Balancing Authority Area metered

   boundary), or the BPM for Resource Adequacy (if the resource is located outside the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area metered boundary).




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2029
MISO                                                                                              69A.3.1.f
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           Curtailments
MODULES                                                                                               32.0.0


   Curtailments

   At its sole discretion, the Transmission Provider may curtail exports not being used as capacity

   by an external balancing authority and/or recall External Resources, PPAs, and Diversity

   Contracts sourced from a Capacity Resource during a declared Energy Emergency. Procedures

   for such actions shall be specified in the operating procedures. With respect to external

   balancing authorities that have a Seams Operating Agreement with the Transmission Provider

   pursuant to Section 69 A.3.1.c.4, during a declared Energy Emergency in the MISO Balancing

   Authority Area, the Transmission Provider shall only interrupt or reduce Export Schedules

   associated with a sale of capacity on a reciprocal pro rata basis to that required of the external

   balancing authority in Section 69A.3.1.c.4.(iii).




                                                                              Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1.g
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Determination of Deliverability
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


   A.     Determination of Deliverability of Generation Resources, Electric Storage

   Resources, and External Resources:

   The Transmission Provider shall be responsible for determining whether Generation Resources,

   Electric Storage Resources, and External Resources eligible to be Capacity Resources are

   deliverable to Load. The deliverable amount of such Generation Resources, Electric Storage

   Resources, and External Resources will be any combination of the following:

          i.     The amount of Network Resource Interconnection Service under Attachment X;

          ii.    The amount of Energy Resource Interconnection Service under Attachment X that

                 is coupled with firm Transmission Service;

          iii.   The amount of firm Transmission Service associated with a Grandfathered

                 Agreement that can only be used to satisfy PRMR within the LRZ of the Load

                 under the Grandfathered Agreement;

          iv.    The amount of aggregate deliverability that a Generation Resource or External

                 Resource was granted through the market transition deliverability test by the

                 Transmission Provider and could qualify for Network Resource Interconnection

                 Service;

          v.     The amount of non-aggregate deliverability that a Generation Resource or

                 External Resource was granted by the transmission provider and confirmed by a

                 Network Customer as a designated Network Resource under the OASIS

                 reservation process in place prior to either the initial effective date of the Energy

                 Market in 2005 or that corresponding Transmission Owner’s integration date, will

                 be accepted by the Transmission Provider as deliverable to the Network Loads of




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1.g
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Determination of Deliverability
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


                    the Network Customer for that term of the confirmed designation, as such term

                    may be extended; or,

          vi.       The amount of ZG Interconnection Service under Attachment X only for a ZG

                    Resource.

   B.     Determination of Deliverability of Intermittent Generation, Dispatchable

   Intermittent Resources, and Electric Storage Resources:

   The Transmission Provider shall be responsible for determining whether Intermittent Generation,

   Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, and Electric Storage Resources eligible to be Capacity

   Resources are deliverable to Load. The deliverable amount of such Intermittent Generation,

   Dispatchable Intermittent Resources, and Electric Storage Resources will be any combination of

   the following:

          i.        The amount of Network Resource Interconnection Service under Attachment X;

          ii.       The amount of Energy Resource Interconnection Service under Attachment X that

                    is coupled with firm Transmission Service;

          iii.      The amount of firm Transmission Service associated with a Grandfathered

                    Agreement that can only be used to satisfy PRMR within the LRZ of the Load

                    under the Grandfathered Agreement;

          iv.       The amount of aggregate deliverability that the Intermittent Generation or

                    Dispatchable Intermittent Resource was granted through the market transition

                    deliverability test by the Transmission Provider and could qualify for Network

                    Resource Interconnection Service;

          v.        The amount of non-aggregate deliverability that a Intermittent Generation or




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.1.g
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Determination of Deliverability
MODULES                                                                                          44.0.0


                 Dispatchable Intermittent Resource was granted by the transmission provider and

                 confirmed by a Network Customer as a designated Network Resource under the

                 OASIS reservation process in place prior to either the initial effective date of the

                 Energy Market in 2005 or that corresponding Transmission Owner’s integration

                 date, will be accepted by the Transmission Provider as deliverable to the Network

                 Loads of the Network Customer for that term of the confirmed designation, as

                 such term may be extended; or,

          vi.    The amount of ZG Interconnection Service under Attachment X only for a ZG

                 Resource.

   C.     Determination of Deliverability of Resources with Provisional Generator

   Interconnection Agreements:

   The Transmission Provider shall be responsible for determining whether Resources with

   Provisional Generator Interconnection Agreements are deliverable to Load. The deliverable

   amount of such Resources will be the amount of interconnection service established through the

   annual ERIS evaluation in accordance with the BPM for Generator Interconnection that is

   coupled with firm Transmission Service.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.1.h
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Replacement of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


   Replacement of Planning Resources

   A.     Replacement of Planning Resources

          A Planning Resource may replace Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs pursuant to the

   following circumstances:

          i.         Retirement and Suspension

                1.      A Planning Resource for which a Market Participant requests a change in

                        status in accordance with the System Support Resource (SSR) provisions

                        described in Section 38.2.7 will no longer qualify as a Planning Resource

                        effective as of the actual date that the status of the Planning Resource changes

                        to Retire pursuant to Section 38.2.7.

                2.      A Generation Resource that has the status of Suspend pursuant to Section

                        38.2.7 will continue to qualify as a Planning Resource in accordance with the

                        BPM for Resource Adequacy.

                3.      If a Planning Resource for which a Market Participant converts Seasonal

                        Accredited Capacity into ZRCs is Retired or Suspended prior to the end of the

                        Season during the Planning Year in which the ZRCs cleared, such Market

                        Participant must replace the Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs. If a Market

                        Participant does not replace such ZRCs associated with a Retired or

                        Suspended Planning Resource, a Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance

                        Charge will be assessed as determined below in this Section.

          ii.        ICAP Deferral

                1.      A Planning Resource for which a Market Participant submits an ICAP




                                                                            Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.1.h
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Replacement of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


                        Deferral Notice will be subject to ICAP Deferral Requirements and Charges

                        pursuant to Section 69A.7.9.

                 2.     If a Market Participant’s Planning Resource fails to satisfy the ICAP deferral

                        requirements set forth in Section 69A.7.9 and the Market Participant does not

                        replace Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs, an ICAP Deferral Non-

                        Compliance Charge will be assessed pursuant to Section 69A.7.9.

          iii.        Outage

                 1.     If a Planning Resource, including a ZG Resource of any type, for which a

                        Market Participant converts Seasonal Accredited Capacity into ZRCs is

                        unable to meet the applicable performance requirements for the Cleared ZRCs

                        as described in Section 69A.5 for greater than thirty-one (31) Days in total due

                        to full or partial Generator Planned Outage during the Season of the Planning

                        Year in which the ZRCs cleared, or for Planning Resources that are subject to

                        Diversity Contracts for greater than one (1) Month during any Season of the

                        Planning Year in which the ZRCs cleared, such Market Participant must

                        replace the Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs to transfer the performance

                        requirements applicable to the Planning Resource. If a Market Participant

                        does not replace such ZRCs associated with a Planning Resource, a Capacity

                        Replacement Non-Compliance Charge will be assessed as determined below

                        in this Section.

                 2.     Any combination of Cleared ZRCs that are on full or partial Generator

                        Planned Outage for greater than thirty-one (31) Days in total during a Season,




                                                                           Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.1.h
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Replacement of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                          44.0.0


                        or for any other reason including full or partial Generation Outages that were

                        not planned but were known or could have been reasonably anticipated at the

                        time of the PRA, as set forth in the Market Monitoring and Mitigation

                        Business Practices Manual, or unavailable because subject to a Diversity

                        Contract that is not available for greater than one (1) Month during a Season,

                        will be assessed a Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge.

                3.      If a Planning Resource for which a Market Participant converts Seasonal

                        Accredited Capacity into ZRCs is unable to meet the applicable performance

                        requirements for the Cleared ZRCs as described in Sections 69A.3.3.1 and

                        69A.5 due to a Catastrophic Generator Outage any time during the Season(s)

                        of the Planning Year in which the ZRCs cleared such Market Participant may

                        replace the Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs to transfer the performance

                        requirements applicable to the Planning Resource.

          iv.        Load Modifying Resources

                1.      A Behind the Meter Generator for which a Market Participant converts

                        Seasonal Accredited Capacity into ZRCs that is unable to meet the applicable

                        performance requirements for the Cleared ZRCs as described in Section

                        69A.3.3.1 due to either an outage submitted in accordance with the BPM for

                        Resource Adequacy or due to regulatory restrictions resulting in the

                        unavailability of the BTMG may replace the Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared

                        ZRCs.

                2.      A Demand Resource for which a Market Participant converts Seasonal




                                                                            Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.1.h
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Replacement of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                         44.0.0


                       Accredited Capacity into ZRCs is unable to meet applicable performance

                       requirements for the Cleared ZRCs as described in Section 69A.3.3.1 due to a

                       change in ownership of the end use facility or through state or RERRA action

                       which results in the termination of contracts with the Demand Resource may

                       replace the Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs.

               3.      A Market Participant representing an LMR may through consultation with the

                       IMM as set forth in Section 64.3.e of Module D replace the Cleared ZRCs

                       with Uncleared ZRCs. The performance obligation of the Uncleared ZRCs

                       take the place of the applicable performance obligation of the Cleared ZRCs

                       that were replaced.

          v.        General Provisions

               1.      A Planning Resource may not transfer its performance requirements by

                       replacing the Cleared ZRCs with Uncleared ZRCs for any reason other than

                       those reasons discussed immediately above.

               2.      A Planning Resource for which a Market Participant converts Seasonal

                       Accredited Capacity into ZRCs that are used to replace Cleared ZRCs must

                       meet the applicable performance requirements as described in sections

                       69A.3.3.1 and 69A.5 for the balance of the Season of the Planning Year,

                       subject to the same replacement requirements set forth above.

               3.      Cleared ZRCs can be replaced with Uncleared ZRCs that are not from the

                       same LRZ or ERZ by examining post-replacement clearing as if it were the

                       PRA clearing results, so that such replacement: (1) does not violate any CIL




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.1.h
FERC Electric Tariff                                                   Replacement of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                           44.0.0


                          used in the PRA; (2) does not violate any CEL used in the PRA; (3) does not

                          reduce the remaining total ZRCs for any LRZ of Cleared ZRCs below the

                          LCR for that LRZ; and (4) does not exceed any flow ranges established under

                          applicable seams agreements, coordination agreements, or transmission

                          service agreements.

               4.         ZRC replacements from LRZs or ERZs other than that of the Cleared ZRCs

                          will be processed in accordance with the following parameters:

                    i.       ZRC replacement shall be processed on a first come, first served basis.

                    ii.      The amount of Cleared ZRCs in each LRZ or ERZs at the time of a ZRC

                             replacement shall be based upon the current amounts of Cleared ZRCs,

                             including any previous replacement transactions.

               5.         ZRC replacement shall have no impact on settlements from the PRA, FRAPs,

                          and RBDC Opt Out, including any assessed Capacity Replacement Non-

                          Compliance Charges.

   B.     Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charge and Distribution

          i.        Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charges will be calculated as follows:

                    the number of days for which the Market Participant had a replacement

                    requirement but failed to replace per section 69A.3.1.h.a above multiplied by the

                    amount of ZRCs that failed to be replaced multiplied by the sum of the ACP for

                    the applicable Season and the daily CONE value (1/365 times CONE). The ACP

                    and the CONE values will be based on the LRZ where the Planning Resource

                    cleared those ZRCs. If the Planning Resource is represented in an ERZ connected




                                                                            Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.3.1.h
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Replacement of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                       44.0.0


                 to a single SRRZ, the applicable CONE value will be the greatest CONE value of

                 all LRZs in the respective SRRZ. For External Resources represented in ERZs

                 that are connected to multiple SRRZs or that are not connected to any SRRZs, the

                 applicable CONE value will be the greatest CONE value of all LRZs in those

                 connected SRRZs.

          ii.    Distribution of Capacity Replacement Non-Compliance Charges: Capacity

                 Replacement Non-Compliance Charge revenues received by the Transmission

                 Provider will be distributed to Market Participants representing LSEs that have

                 met their Final PRMR during the applicable Season of the Planning Year on a pro

                 rata basis, based upon their respective LSEs’ share of Final PRMR for the

                 Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                       Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                   69A.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff                RESERVED
MODULES                                 35.0.0




                       Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Load Modifying Resources
MODULES                                                                                      37.0.0


   Load Modifying Resources

   Load Modifying Resources can be offered as ZRCs in the PRA or can be used in FRAPs

   pursuant to Section 69A.9 or used in an RBDC Opt Out pursuant to Section 69A.9.1. As

   described below, a Demand Resource or a BTMG is eligible to qualify as a Load Modifying

   Resource if it meets the following requirements. A ZG Resource may qualify as a BTMG if not

   registered as a Generation Resource or DIR. All LMRs that are cleared in the PRA or were

   submitted in a FRAP for a Season or submitted in an RBDC Opt Out must be available for use in

   the event of an Emergency as declared by the Transmission Provider, pursuant to the Emergency

   operating procedures of the Transmission Provider, unless replaced with other ZRCs pursuant to

   Section 69A.3.1.h. ZRCs from Demand Resources will be grossed-up by the amount of avoided

   transmission losses in accordance with Section 68A.8.b and also by the applicable PRM in

   accordance with Section 68A.2. ZRCs from BTMGs will be grossed-up by the amount of

   avoided transmission losses in accordance with Section 68A.8.b. In accordance with the BPM

   for Resource Adequacy, the Transmission Provider will qualify an LMR for the applicable

   Season in the upcoming Planning Year. The amount of ZRCs from Demand Resources and

   BTMG has to be consistent with the expected reduction in demand at the time of the

   Transmission Provider’s expected Coincident Peak Demand.




                                                                      Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                  Deployment Procedures for LMR
MODULES                                                                                        39.0.0


   Deployment Procedures for LMR

   Procedures for deployment of LMR are found in the BPM for Resource Adequacy and

   Emergency Operating Procedures. Such procedures shall be consistent with the information

   provided by the Market Participant regarding availability and notice time. At a minimum the

   Market Participant will provide the deployment parameters of the LMR (as described in Sections

   69A.3.5 and 69A.3.6), during declared Emergencies prior to the use of Operating Reserves to

   achieve energy balance. The Market Participant shall, at all times, notify the Transmission

   Provider or Local Balancing Authority when the status or availability of an LMR changes,

   except for de minimis changes that do not need to be reported, according to procedures specified

   in the BPM for Resource Adequacy and Emergency Operating Procedures. The Transmission

   Provider or Local Balancing Authority shall coordinate with the Market Participant that owns or

   controls such LMR when necessary to deploy or notify such LMR of a planned deployment.

   The Transmission Provider or Local Balancing Authority shall coordinate with the Market

   Participant that owns or controls such LMR when necessary to notify such LMR of a planned

   deployment through the issuance of Scheduling Instructions. Market Participants may be issued

   Scheduling Instructions during a declared Emergency or in anticipation of an Emergency at the

   discretion of Transmission Provider. Market Participants shall acknowledge Scheduling

   Instructions issued in accordance with BPM for Resource Adequacy for its LMRs. In the event

   of an anticipated Emergency where the Transmission Provider does not declare the actual

   Emergency at least two hours prior to the anticipated Emergency event, Market Participants are

   not obligated to meet the Scheduling Instructions issued in anticipation of such Emergency and

   will not be penalized for non-performance. This does not apply to Scheduling Instructions




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Deployment Procedures for LMR
MODULES                                                                                           39.0.0


   issued after the declaration of an Emergency.

   A Market Participant that acknowledges Scheduling Instructions for its LMR(s) as required by

   the BPM for Resource Adequacy will receive credit for one (1) of the minimum deployments or

   interruptions required for the LMR for the applicable Season whether or not an Emergency is

   declared. However, a Market Participant that fails to acknowledge the Scheduling Instructions

   as required by the BPM for Resource Adequacy will not receive credit for such deployment or

   interruption for its LMR(s). LMRs that are unavailable to receive Scheduling Instructions or fail

   to acknowledge Scheduling Instructions are subject to the penalty provisions of Section 69A.3.9.

   An LMR that does not perform consistent with the Market Participant’s response to its

   Scheduling Instructions in the event of an Emergency is subject to the penalty provisions of

   Section 69A.3.9 and will not receive credit as one (1) of the minimum deployments or

   interruptions required for such resource for the applicable Season.




                                                                               Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Demand Resources (DR)
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


   Demand Resources (DR)

   Demand Resources may be deployed to reduce Demand either: (i) by a targeted Demand

   reduction amount; or (ii) to a specified Firm Service Level. A LMR MP shall test, validate, and

   measure its Demand Resources and submit the results to the Transmission Provider, which shall

   verify all Demand Resources claimed by a LMR MP, consistent with the procedures specified in

   the BPM for Resource Adequacy. The accrediting, testing, validation, measurement and

   verification procedures developed by the Transmission Provider shall take into account any

   applicable State Regulatory Authority, RE or other non-jurisdictional entities’ requirements

   regarding duration, frequency and notification processes for the candidate Demand Resource. A

   Demand Resource that is sensitive to temperature changes must identify the extent of such

   temperature sensitivity to the Transmission Provider with sufficient detail to enable the

   Transmission Provider to verify whether the Demand Resource would be subject to penalties in

   Section 69A.3.9 for failure to achieve the targeted Demand reduction amount or move the LSE

   to a specified Firm Service Level. Temperature sensitive analysis must include, but is not

   limited to, identifying the measure used for temperature changes and the temperature elasticity of

   the LSE’s Load to weather, as further described in the BPM for Resource Adequacy. In

   accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy, the Transmission Provider will qualify a DR

   for each Season in the upcoming Planning Year.




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         51.0.0


   Demand Resource Eligibility

   A Market Participant that possesses ownership or equivalent contractual rights in a Demand

   Resource can request accreditation for a Demand Resource as an LMR by registering such

   resource with the Transmission Provider as documented in the BPM for Resource Adequacy.

   The Market Participant registering the Demand Resource must include the contracts with each

   end-use customer indicating rights to require the Demand Resource to curtail Load.

   Notwithstanding, a copy of a contract with an end-use customer will not be required if the

   Market Participant is the end-use customer. In addition, the Market Participant must meet the

   following requirements:

          a.      The Demand Resource must be equal to or greater than 100 kW (a grouping of

                  smaller resources aggregated together that can reduce an LSE’s Coincident Peak

                  Demand for the applicable Season may qualify in meeting this standard).

          b.      A Demand Resource must have a notification time requirement less than or equal

                  to six (6) hours to receive credit as a Planning Resource in the applicable Seasons.

          c.      Once Scheduling Instructions are given by the Transmission Provider that require

                  a Demand reduction, the Demand Resource must be capable of ramping down to

                  meet the targeted Demand reduction amount or to achieve the Firm Service Level

                  by the Hour designated by the Transmission Provider’s Scheduling Instructions.

          d.      Once the targeted amount of Demand reduction or Firm Service Level is

                  achieved, the Demand Resource must be able to maintain the targeted amount of

                  Demand reduction or Firm Service Level for at least four (4) continuous Hours.

          e.      A Demand Resource must have a notification time equal to or less than six (6)




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                          51.0.0


                 hours and be capable of being interrupted for: (i) at least the first five (5) times

                 requested in the Summer Season; (ii) at least the first five (5) times requested in

                 the Winter Season; (iii) at least the first three (3) times requested in the Spring

                 Season; and (iv) at least the first three (3) times requested in the Fall Season,

                 based on their physical availability when called upon by the Transmission

                 Provider for an Emergency during any applicable Season in the Planning Year for

                 which the Demand Resource receives credit as a Planning Resource. These

                 obligations only apply to Seasons in which a Demand Resource clears the

                 Planning Resource Auction.

                 Limitations due to applicable regulatory restrictions that are more restrictive than

                 the physical limitations of the Demand Resource will supersede the physical

                 availability of the Demand Resource.

          f.     Penalties are assessed to a Market Participant representing a Demand Resource

                 based on the stated real-time availability of each separately registered Load

                 Modifying Resource. There shall be no penalties assessed to a Market Participant

                 representing the entity that has Cleared ZRCs from the LMR if the Demand

                 Resource is unavailable for reasons of Force Majeure, or in the event that the

                 specified Demand reduction had already been accomplished for other reasons

                 (e.g., economic considerations, operating one’s own Demand Resource at or

                 above the credited level of Demand Resource, or local reliability concerns in

                 accordance with instructions from the Local Balancing Authority).

          g.     A Demand Resource for which curtailment is not an obligation during Emergency




                                                                                Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         51.0.0


                 events declared by the Transmission Provider pursuant to the Transmission

                 Provider Emergency Operating Procedures, will not qualify as an LMR.

          h.     A Market Participant shall be prohibited from registering a Demand Resource for

                 which credit is already being taken by a Market Participant.

          i.     Demand Resources that are offered into the Day-Ahead and/or Real-Time Energy

                 and Operating Reserve Markets as price sensitive Bids are obligated to be

                 interrupted during an Emergency pursuant to the Transmission Provider

                 Emergency Operating Procedures regardless of the projected or actual Real-Time

                 Energy Market LMP.

          j.     A Market Participant must demonstrate Demand reduction capability for each

                 Planning Year on an annual basis through the performance of a real power test

                 using the defined baselines for the Measurement and Verification of the test, as

                 described below in this subsection. A Demand Resource for which a real power

                 test is conducted will receive credit as one (1) of the minimum deployments or

                 interruptions required for such resource for the applicable Season of the Planning

                 Year in which such a test occurs.

                 Alternatively, a Demand Resource may provide operational data and

                 documentation, by which the demand reduction capability can be demonstrated

                 without requiring an actual demand reduction if a real power test is precluded or

                 waived due to one of the conditions as specified below:

                        1) Such a real power test is either explicitly precluded or explicitly waived

                        under a retail program approved by any applicable regulatory authority,




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                       69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                      51.0.0


                       the Market Participant registering the Demand Resource is participating in

                       such retail program with the same resource being registered with the

                       Transmission Provider, and documentation of such preclusion or waiver is

                       provided during registration for the Planning Resource Auction.

                       2) For the 2026 / 2027 Planning Year, a Market Participant registering a

                       Demand Resource with the Transmission Provider for the Planning

                       Resource Auction, where such resource is also participating in a retail

                       program overseen by a regulatory authority, may waive the obligation to

                       conduct a real power test by notifying the Transmission Provider during

                       DR registration into the PRA and accepting a penalty equal to three (3)

                       times the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Load CPNode described

                       in and distributed pursuant to Section 69A.3.9. A Demand Resource

                       providing such notice must satisfy the documentation requirements

                       described in the Business Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy and

                       credit requirements by March 1 prior to the Planning Year totaling the

                       ICAP value registered, but not tested, multiplied by $12,000/MW, where

                       $12,000 is the product of 3 * 4 * $1,000 to account for the three (3) times

                       energy penalty assumed under the waiver, the four (4) hours of LMR

                       requirements, and a $1,000 LMP as a proxy for pricing under Emergency

                       conditions.

                       3) A Market Participant may request waiver of the obligation to conduct a

                       real power test of a Demand Resource provided the Demand Resource




                                                                           Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                        51.0.0


                        being registered meets the following conditions during the three-year

                        period beginning on January 1st of the Year that is three years prior to the

                        start of the applicable Planning Year:

                                a) The resource has responded to at least one Scheduling

                                Instruction, has fully met the performance requirements of all

                                Scheduling Instructions issued, and has met the requirements of

                                Section 69A.3.5.e; and

                                b) The resource has not experienced a significant change in its

                                operations or any change in the composition of the underlying non-

                                residential components of the aggregation from the Planning Year

                                prior to the Planning Year for which the resource is being

                                registered. Aggregations comprised entirely of residential

                                components satisfy this requirement unless they request a change

                                in the total accredited amount of the program. The requirements of

                                this subsection shall be further defined in the Business Practices

                                Manual for Resources Adequacy.

                 Demand Resources not using a Firm Service Level baseline.

                 For a resource that is not using the Firm Service Level baseline Measurement and

                 Verification procedure, the test must demonstrate 100% of the registered capacity

                 value, subject to the requirements specified in the Business Practices Manual for

                 Resource Adequacy. A weather adjustment may be applied to all such resources

                 that have a temperature dependency. In no case will the weather adjustment




                                                                             Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         51.0.0


                 increase the registered capacity value of the Demand Resource by more than 25%

                 of the tested value. Each component of an aggregation of assets using the

                 calculated baseline technique must provide the results of separate tests for each

                 component of the aggregation and these tests must be performed simultaneously.

                 The baseline used for the performance of a real power test is the actual hourly use

                 in the Hour the test begins.



                 Demand Resource using a Firm Service Level baseline.

                 An asset using the Firm Service Level baseline must provide a real power test

                 under one of the following two conditions:

                 1. A test demonstrating the ability to reduce Demand when starting from a point

                       at the beginning of the test that is at least 80% of the maximum Hourly

                       metered Demand and ending at a point at or below the Firm Service Level.

                       When determining the maximum hourly Demand consumed to verify the real

                       power test data submitted by a Market Participant, the Transmission Provider

                       will exclude Hours with Demand that is at least two (2) standard deviations

                       above the mean Demand consumed in a Season.; or

                 2. A test demonstrating the ability to reduce Demand when starting from a point

                       at least as great as the maximum Demand consumed during expected

                       Resource Adequacy Hours, as set forth in the Resource Adequacy Business

                       Practices Manual, and ending at a point at or below the Firm Service Level.

                 A test must be performed to satisfy the requirements for each Season for the most




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                        51.0.0


                 recent period spanning September 1 through August 31, prior to the applicable

                 Planning Year. A single annual test that satisfies the criteria for each Season shall

                 satisfy this requirement. Demand Resources that conducted a Real Power Test

                 between January 1, 2025 and July 14, 2025 that satisfy the criteria set forth in

                 Transmission Provider’s Tariff and Business Practices Manual for Resource

                 Adequacy during that period shall be deemed to have satisfied this requirement.



                 Demand Resource using a custom baseline.

                 A resource using a custom baseline will be subject to the appropriate testing

                 criteria determined by the Transmission Provider using the most appropriate

                 baseline methodology set forth above.



                 All existing accredited Demand Resources that neither conduct a real power test

                 nor meet Scheduling Instructions issued by the Transmission Provider during the

                 prior Planning Year must participate in training provided by the Transmission

                 Provider on the deployment of LMRs during the prior Planning Year. Any

                 existing accredited Demand Resource must submit (1) the real power test results,

                 (2) reference performance of Scheduling Instructions for demand reduction when

                 called upon during the calendar year prior to the upcoming Planning Year, (3)

                 relevant data and a reference of training participation to the Transmission

                 Provider, or (4) a Demand Resource Deferral Notice pursuant to 69A.3.5(m) and

                 a reference of training participation to the Transmission Provider no later than




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         51.0.0


                 February 1 prior to such Planning Year for existing accredited DR. To participate

                 in the Planning Resource Auction, new Demand Resources must either, (1)

                 conduct a real power test and submit results to the Transmission Provider, or (2)

                 submit a Demand Resource Deferral Notice no later than March 1 prior to the

                 PRA in accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy. For new Demand

                 Resources to be eligible to be used as replacement ZRCs, a real power test must

                 be conducted and results of this test must be submitted to the Transmission

                 Provider prior to the start of the Season the resource will be used.

          k.     Data submission requirements

                 A Market Participant must provide hourly meter data for each Demand Resource

                 being registered as detailed in the Business Practices Manual for Resource

                 Adequacy. A Market Participant electing to use the Demand Resource Deferral

                 Notice must provide all available hourly meter data demonstrating the Demand

                 increase justifying the Demand Resource Deferral Notice at the time of the real

                 power test required under Section 69A.3.5.m.

          l.     Market Participants providing physical, regulatory, or contractual limitations of

                 the notice times and availability of Demand Resources must provide appropriate

                 documentation to the Transmission Provider in accordance with the BPM for

                 Resource Adequacy.

          m.     A Market Participant may defer the obligation to conduct a real power test, as set

                 forth in section 69A.3.5(j), by providing a Demand Resource Deferral Notice to

                 the Transmission Provider in writing and signed by an officer of the company at




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                        51.0.0


                 the time of enrollment to the Planning Resource Auction. The Demand Resource

                 Deferral Notice shall contain: (1) the expected Demand Resource test value (in

                 megawatts) from such Demand Resource; and (2) appropriate information

                 validating that real power test results will be submitted to the Transmission

                 Provider by the last Business Day of the Season prior to the first Season in which

                 the Demand Resource cleared the PRA. In addition, Market Participants must

                 submit documentation before the start of the Planning Year that demonstrates that

                 the facility being registered as a Demand Resource was online by the most recent

                 March 1 prior to the start of the Planning Year. In the event ZRCs associated

                 with a Planning Resource for which Demand Resource testing has been

                 successfully deferred are unconverted in accordance with section 69A.7.3, the

                 Market Participant is not required to submit a real power test for the Uncleared

                 ZRCs. A Market Participant that provides a Demand Resource Deferral Notice

                 and that either (1) has not submitted any real power test result for such Demand

                 Resource by the last Business Day of the Season prior to the first Season in which

                 the Demand Resource cleared the PRA, or (2) has submitted a real power test

                 result by the last Business Day of the Season prior to the first Season in which the

                 Demand Resource cleared the PRA that demonstrates fewer megawatts are

                 available than the expected Demand Resource test value submitted in the Demand

                 Resource Deferral Notice, or (3) has not submitted documentation before the start

                 of the Planning Year that demonstrates that the facility being registered as a

                 Demand Resource was online by the most recent March 1 prior to the start of the




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                        69A.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Demand Resources Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                       51.0.0


                 Planning Year shall be subject to a charge equal to the product of number of Days

                 of the Season and the amount of Cleared ZRCs, in MW, that failed to be

                 demonstrated and the sum of the ACP, measured in $/MW-Day for the applicable

                 Season and the daily CONE value (1/365 times CONE), measured in $/MW-Day.

                 The ZRCs subject to this charge may not be replaced. The ACP and the CONE

                 values will be based on the LRZ where the Planning Resource Auction cleared

                 those ZRCs. Revenues received by the Transmission Provider due to the Demand

                 Resource Deferral Notice charges will be distributed to Market Participants

                 representing LSEs that have met their Final PRMR during the applicable Season

                 of the Planning Year on a pro rata basis, based upon the respective LSEs’ share of

                 Final PRMR for the Transmission Provider Region.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                          49.0.0


   Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility

   1.     In accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy, the Transmission Provider will

          qualify a BTMG for the applicable Season in the upcoming Planning Year. A Market

          Participant that possesses ownership or equivalent contractual rights in a BTMG can

          request accreditation for such BTMG. The Market Participant registering the BTMG

          must include the contracts with each end-use customer indicating rights behind the

          BTMG to generate behind-the-meter generation. Notwithstanding, a copy of a contract

          with an end-use customer will not be required if the Market Participant is, or has non-

          contractual legal rights to control, the end use customer. In addition, a Market Participant

          registering a BTMG or ZG Resource participating as a BTMG must meet the following

          requirements:

          a.     registering such resource(s) with the Transmission Provider as documented in the

                 BPM for Resource Adequacy.

          b.     demonstrating GVTC capability for applicable Season in each Planning Year on

                 an annual basis as established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy, and by

                 submitting the GVTC results to the Transmission Provider no later than

                 September 30 prior to such Planning Year for existing accredited BTMG unless

                 the Transmission Provider has granted an extension pursuant to Section

                 69A.3.6.1.k. All new BTMGs or an existing accredited BTMG that has an

                 increased installed capacity shall submit their GVTC to the Transmission Provider

                 prior to qualification, but no later than March 1 prior to the PRA as established in

                 the BPM for Resource Adequacy.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                             69A.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                            49.0.0


          c.     submitting generator availability data (including, but not limited to, NERC GADS

                 information) into a database provided by the Transmission Provider and as

                 established in the BPM for Resource Adequacy. A Market Participant is not

                 required to report generator availability data based on GVTC for a BTMG less

                 than 10 MW if the Market Participant has never provided such data for such

                 BTMG. A Market Participant that begins reporting generator availability data

                 based upon GVTC for a BTMG that is less than 10 MW must continue to report

                 such data.

          d.     having a notification time requirement less than or equal to 6 hours to receive

                 credit as a Planning Resource.

          e.     demonstrating that the BTMG is able to sustain energy production at the

                 accredited MW level for at least four (4) continuous Hours;

          f.     demonstrating that the BTMG is capable of being deployed at the accredited MW

                 level for: (i) at least the first five (5) times requested in the Summer Season; and

                 (ii) at least the first five (5) times requested in the Winter Season; (iii) at least the

                 first three (3) times requested in the Spring Season; and (iv) at least the first three

                 (3) times requested in the Fall Season, based on their physical capability when

                 called upon by the Transmission Provider during an Emergency during any

                 applicable Season in a Planning Year for which the BTMG receives credit as a

                 Planning Resource. Limitations due to applicable regulatory restrictions that are

                 more restrictive than the physical limitations of the BTMG will supersede the

                 physical availability of the BTMG.




                                                                            Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         49.0.0


          g.     There shall be no penalties assessed to a Market Participant representing the entity

                 that has offered ZRCs from the LMR if the BTMG Resource is unavailable for

                 interruption as a result of maintenance requirements in accordance with Good

                 Utility Practice, or for reasons of Force Majeure, or in the event the specified

                 BTMG reduction had already been accomplished for other reasons (e.g.,

                 economic considerations, operating the BTMG Resource at or above the credited

                 level of BTMG Resource, or local reliability concerns in accordance with

                 instructions from the Local Balancing Authority).

          h.     A BTMG Resource for which operation is not an obligation during Emergency

                 events declared by the Transmission Provider pursuant to the Transmission

                 Provider emergency operating procedures, will not qualify as an LMR.

          i.     A Market Participant shall be prohibited from registering a BTMG Resource for

                 which credit is already being taken by a Market Participant.

          j.     Market Participants providing physical, regulatory, or contractual limitations of

                 the notice time and availability of BTMG must provide appropriate

                 documentation to the Transmission Provider in accordance with the BPM for

                 Resource Adequacy.

          k.     A Market Participant for a BTMG required to submit GVTC results must use

                 Reasonable Efforts to submit GVTC by September 30 prior to the upcoming

                 Planning Year. If circumstances prevent the Market Participant from submitting

                 the GVTC results for the BTMG by September 30, the Market Participant must

                 notify the Transmission Provider no later than five (5) Business Days after




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                         49.0.0


                 September 30 and request an extension. The extension request must include a

                 reasonable explanation and justification for missing the deadline and an expected

                 completion date prior to the upcoming Planning Year. The Transmission Provider

                 will review each extension request on a case by case basis to determine whether

                 or not to approve or deny the request to extent the GVTC deadline. Denial of an

                 extension will not preclude the Market Participant for the BTMG from utilizing

                 the ICAP Deferral process as described in Section 69A.7.9.

   2.     Installed Capacity (ICAP) Deferral

          If a Market Participant for a BTMG has not completed GVTC testing by the deadlines

          provided in 69A.3.6.1.b, is not expected to demonstrate deliverability, or is otherwise not

          expected to demonstrate commercial operation prior to March 1, ZRCs from such

          capacity may be used the PRA, in a FRAP (including through bilateral ZRC transactions)

          or in an RBDC Opt Out, subject to the notification, credit, and non-compliance

          provisions of Section 69A.7.9.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                    69A.3.7
FERC Electric Tariff                 RESERVED
MODULES                                  31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.8
FERC Electric Tariff                       Transmission Provider Initiated Testing of Demand Resources
MODULES                                                                                         35.0.0


   Transmission Provider Initiated Testing of Demand Resources

   1.     A Demand Resource participating as a DRR or a LMR that is registered in the PRA shall

          be subject to a Transmission Provider initiated test according to the following

          requirements:

          a.     Test frequency:

                 i.       A Demand Resource using an Attachment TT defined Statistical

                          Measurement and Verification methodology shall be tested once per

                          Planning Year;

                 ii.      A Demand Resource participating as a DRR or LMR – Type I that is not

                          using a Statistical Measurement and Verification methodology as defined

                          in Attachment TT shall be tested once per three (3) Planning Years;

                 iii.     A Demand Resource participating as an LMR – Type II shall be tested

                          once per Planning Year. A Market Participant representing a Demand

                          Resource participating as an LMR – Type II may request a Transmission

                          Provider initiated test opt out as set forth in Section 69A.3.8.2; or

                 iv.      Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Transmission Provider may test

                          a resource at any time due to its non-performance.

          b.     A Demand Resource that has successfully deployed in response to a Setpoint

                 Instruction or Scheduling Instruction issued during an Emergency in either the

                 past one (1) or three (3) Planning Years as applicable pursuant to sub-section a.

                 above, shall count as a successful Transmission Provider initiated test.

                 Provided there are no deployment failures for a Demand Resource participating as




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.8
FERC Electric Tariff                       Transmission Provider Initiated Testing of Demand Resources
MODULES                                                                                         35.0.0


                 an LMR during the 2025/2026, 2026/2027, and 2027/2028 Planning Years, full

                 response to Setpoint Instructions or Scheduling Instructions issued during an

                 Emergency shall count as a successful Transmission Provider initiated test for the

                 first one (1) or three (3) Planning Year cycle, as applicable, beginning with the

                 2028/2029 Planning Year.

          c.     A new Demand Resource participating as a DRR or an LMR shall undergo a

                 Transmission Provider initiated test during the first Planning Year it is registered

                 for the PRA.

          d.     A Market Participant shall receive at least 24 hours notification prior to the

                 initiation of a Transmission Provider initiated test. Additional requirements

                 regarding the Transmission Provider initiated test shall be set forth in the BPM for

                 Resource Adequacy.

          e.     After receiving notification of a Transmission Provider initiated test, a Market

                 Participant may elect to reschedule one (1) test one (1) time each Planning Year

                 after providing the Transmission Provider with at least one (1) Hour notice prior

                 to the initiation of the testing interval stated in the notification of the

                 Transmission Provider initiated test. If electing to reschedule a Transmission

                 Provider initiated test, a Demand Resource shall be tested within the earlier of

                 thirty (30) days or within the same Season.

   2.     A Demand Resource participating as an LMR – Type II may opt out of the annual

          Transmission Provider initiated test requirement if it has responded to all Scheduling

          Instructions and successfully passed all Transmission Provider initiated tests, within the




                                                                           Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.8
FERC Electric Tariff                       Transmission Provider Initiated Testing of Demand Resources
MODULES                                                                                         35.0.0


          past three (3) Planning Years.

          a.     If opting out of a test, a Demand Resource opting out of the test shall be subject to

                 increased real-time penalties equal to the product of Pricing VOLL and the

                 amount of specified Demand reduction, measured in MWh, not achieved in

                 response to a Setpoint Instruction or Scheduling Instruction issued during an

                 Emergency, in addition to any other penalty provisions set forth in 69A.3.9.

   3.     A Demand Resource will be deemed to have fully satisfied the Transmission Provider

          initiated test if the resource has provided the maximum amount of Demand reduction the

          resource is capable of providing based on its Demand from the Hour the resource was

          issued the Transmission Provider initiated test and within the registered notification time.

          The Demand Resource must maintain the Demand reduction or Firm Service Level as

          applicable for four (4) continuous hours. The Demand Resource is not required to

          increase its Demand from its normal operations to its registered Demand amount to

          achieve its tested Demand reduction, but may not either self-schedule or otherwise

          artificially reduce its Demand reduction capability as set forth in the Business Practices

          Manual for Demand Response.

   4.     A Demand Resource will have partially failed the Transmission Provider initiated test if

          the Demand Resource fully deploys outside of the registered notification time and within

          six (6) hours of initiating the test for participating as DRR – Type I or LMR – Type I,

          within thirty (30) minutes of initiating the test for participating as LMR – Type II, and

          within the Offered Shut-Down time for participating as a DRR – Type II. A partial

          failure of a Transmission Provider initiated test will result in:




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         69A.3.8
FERC Electric Tariff                      Transmission Provider Initiated Testing of Demand Resources
MODULES                                                                                        35.0.0


          a.     The Demand Resource being charged the product of the amount of the Demand

                 shortfall, measured in MW at the Hour equal to the initiation of the Transmission

                 Provider test plus the registered response time, and the Auction Clearing Price, for

                 the lesser of:

                 i.      The remainder of the Season; or

                 ii.     Such time as the Demand Resource fully deploys in response to a Setpoint

                         Instruction or Scheduling Instruction during a Transmission Provider

                         declared Emergency.

          b.     The Transmission Provider will adjust the resource’s registered response time to

                 reflect its tested response. A Market Participant must provide evidence to the

                 Transmission Provider to register such resource with a response time less than the

                 response time achieved during the Transmission Provider initiated test during

                 subsequent Planning Years.

          c.     The Demand Resource may be tested in subsequent Seasons during the same

                 Planning Year.

          d.     The Demand Resource shall be tested in the subsequent Planning Year.

   5.     A Transmission Provider initiated test shall be deemed to be fully failed if the Demand

          Resource failed to achieve its required Demand reduction, as measured per the applicable

          Attachment TT Measurement and Verification identified during the registration of the

          resource, within six (6) hours of initiating the test for participating as DRR – Type I or

          LMR – Type I, within thirty (30) minutes of initiating the test for participating as LMR –

          Type II, and within the Offered Shut-Down time for participating as a DRR – Type II.




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                        69A.3.8
FERC Electric Tariff                     Transmission Provider Initiated Testing of Demand Resources
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


          a.     A Demand Resource experiencing a complete test failure will be subject to

                 penalties equal to the product of the cleared ZRCs and the ACP for the entire

                 Season in which the test was performed.

          b.     The Transmission Provider shall perform a test in the subsequent Season the

                 resource has cleared ZRCs.

          c.     A resource failing two (2) tests during a single Planning Year shall be fully

                 disqualified for the remainder of the Planning Year and shall pay 2.748 times the

                 applicable LRZ’s CONE multiplied by the amount of cleared ZRCs for each

                 Season.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                            69A.3.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Penalty Provisions for LMRs
MODULES                                                                                           42.0.0


   Penalty Provisions for LMRs

   Unless an LMR is unavailable as a result of maintenance requirements, for reasons of Force

   Majeure, or because the number of required deployments based on the registered number has

   been reached, the Market Participant representing the entity that had ZRCs from LMRs,

   including ZG Resources participating as BTMG, that cleared in the PRA, were used in a FRAP,

   or were used in an RBDC Opt Out will be subject to the following penalties in the event the

   LMR is called upon during an Emergency as declared by the Transmission Provider and the

   LMR fails to perform in accordance with its Market Participant’s response to such Market

   Participant’s Scheduling Instructions. The penalties defined below will only apply to the portion

   of the Market Participant’s response to such Market Participant’s Scheduling Instruction that is

   not followed during the Emergency declaration and will only be assessed by the Transmission

   Provider after giving the operator of the LMR an opportunity to provide documentation of the

   specific circumstances that would justify exemption from such penalties. There will not be an

   LMR penalty assessed for any portion of the Scheduling Instruction which had already been

   accomplished by an LMR for other reasons (e.g., for economic considerations, self-scheduling at

   or above the credited amount of BTMG or local reliability concerns in accordance with

   instructions from the Local Balancing Authority) at the time the request for interruption is made

   by the Transmission Provider. Likewise, for certain Demand Resources that are temperature

   dependent (e.g., a Demand Resource program involving air conditioning load), the specified

   Demand reduction may be adjusted in a manner defined in the measurement and verification

   procedures developed by the Transmission Provider to reflect the circumstances at the time a

   Demand Resource is called upon to reduce Demand.




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.3.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      Penalty Provisions for LMRs
MODULES                                                                                          42.0.0


          a.     The Transmission Provider shall assess the responsible Market Participant the

                 costs that were otherwise incurred to replace the deficient Planning Resource at

                 the time the Market Participant’s LMR is called upon by the Transmission

                 Provider and does not respond in full or in part consistent with the Market

                 Participant’s response to MISO’s Scheduling Instructions. These costs will be the

                 product of the amount of specified Demand reduction not achieved and the

                 Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Load CPNode, plus any applicable

                 Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee charges. The Transmission Provider shall

                 allocate any such penalty revenues only to the Market Participants representing

                 the LSEs in the Local Balancing Authority Area(s) that experienced the

                 Emergency that required the use of an LMR. Such revenues shall be distributed

                 on a Load Ratio Share basis. For any situation where either an LMR does not

                 respond to an interruption request, including those circumstances where the LMR

                 is claimed to be unavailable as a result of maintenance requirements or for

                 reasons of Force Majeure, the Transmission Provider shall initiate an

                 investigation with the Market Participant which has registered the Demand

                 Resource or BTMG and was qualified as an LMR into the cause of the LMR not

                 being available when called upon to reduce Demand. If deemed appropriate by

                 the Transmission Provider, the Transmission Provider will disqualify the Demand

                 Resource or BTMG from further use as an LMR for the remainder of the current

                 Planning Year, and will discontinue payment of the applicable ACP for the

                 remainder of the current Planning Year when the LMR was unavailable. If such




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.3.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Penalty Provisions for LMRs
MODULES                                                                                         42.0.0


                 LMR was used in a FRAP or cleared in the PRA or used in an RBDC Opt Out,

                 then the Market Participant will be charged the applicable ACP for the remainder

                 of the current Planning Year for the Unforced Capacity of the LMR. The

                 revenues collected will be distributed on a pro rata basis in such LRZ based upon

                 an LSE’s Final PRMR.

          b.     In the event the same LMR is unavailable on a second occasion (with at least a

                 separation period of 24 hours) when called upon to respond to Scheduling

                 Instructions, except for a validated circumstance of maintenance requirements or

                 for reasons of Force Majeure, the Market Participant taking credit for that LMR

                 shall make the same penalty payment as indicated in Section 69A.3.9.a above, and

                 the Demand Resource or BTMG will no longer qualify as an LMR and will not

                 receive the applicable ACP for the remainder of the current Planning Year and

                 will not be eligible for LMR status for the next Planning Year. If such LMR was

                 used in a FRAP or cleared in the PRA or used in an RBDC Opt Out, then the

                 Market Participant will be charged the applicable ACP for the remainder of the

                 current planning year for the Unforced Capacity of the LMR. The revenues

                 collected will be distributed on a pro rata basis in such LRZ based upon an LSE’s

                 Final PRMR.




                                                                       Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.3.10
FERC Electric Tariff                            Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                       33.0.0


   Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility

   1.     A Market Participant that possesses ownership or equivalent contractual rights in a

          behind the meter generator can register such behind the meter generator as a Non-

          Emergency BTMG to participate in the Planning Resource Auction as documented in the

          BPM for Resource Adequacy. The Market Participant registering the Non-Emergency

          BTMG must include the contracts with each behind the meter generator indicating rights

          behind the Non-Emergency BTMG to generate behind-the-meter generation.

          Notwithstanding, a copy of a contract with a behind the meter generator will not be

          required if the Market Participant is, or has non-contractual legal rights to control, the

          behind the meter generator. In addition, the Market Participant must meet the following

          requirements:

          a.     A Market Participant shall be prohibited from registering into the PRA any Non-

                 Emergency BTMG that is concurrently registered, in whole or in part, whether by

                 the same or a different Market Participant.

          b.     The Non-Emergency BTMG must be equal to or greater than 100 kW (a grouping

                 of smaller resources aggregated together as a single Non-Emergency Behind the

                 Meter Generation resource may qualify in meeting this standard).

          c.     Once a Market Participant registers a resource as a Non-Emergency BTMG, it

                 may not register that Non-Emergency BTMG as a DRR – Type I or BTMG until

                 at least three (3) Planning Years have passed. At the conclusion of three (3)

                 Planning Years, the resource may either continue to participate as a Non-

                 Emergency BTMG or be registered as a DRR – Type I or BTMG, provided the




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                     69A.3.10
FERC Electric Tariff                          Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                     33.0.0


                 resource shall maintain such designation as a DRR – Type I or BTMG until at

                 least three (3) Planning Years have passed. A resource participating as a Non-

                 Emergency BTMG may opt to participate as a DRR – Type II Resource at any

                 time by satisfying the requirements of a DRR – Type II.

          d.     A Non-Emergency BTMG has no obligation to respond to a Transmission

                 Provider Setpoint Instruction or Scheduling Instruction.

          e.     A Market Participant registering a Non-Emergency BTMG shall demonstrate

                 GVTC capability for the applicable Season in each Planning Year on an annual

                 basis as established in the Business Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy. A

                 Market Participant of an existing Non-Emergency BTMG must submit the GVTC

                 results to the Transmission Provider no later than September 30 prior to such

                 Planning Year. If circumstances prevent the Market Participant from submitting

                 the GVTC results for the Non-Emergency BTMG by September 30, the Market

                 Participant must notify the Transmission Provider no later than five (5) Business

                 Days after September 30 and request an extension. The extension request must

                 include a reasonable explanation and justification for missing the deadline and an

                 expected completion date prior to the upcoming Planning Year. The

                 Transmission Provider will review each extension request on a case by case basis

                 to determine whether or not to approve or deny the request to extend the GVTC

                 deadline. Denial of an extension will not preclude the Market Participant for the

                 Non-Emergency BTMG from utilizing the ICAP Deferral process as described in

                 Section 69A.7.9.




                                                                      Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                        69A.3.10
FERC Electric Tariff                             Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                        33.0.0


                 A Market Participant of all new Non-Emergency BTMGs, or an existing

                 accredited Non-Emergency BTMG that have increased installed capacity, shall

                 submit their GVTC to the Transmission Provider prior to qualification, but no

                 later than March 1 prior to the PRA.

                 A Market Participant may request an extension of these deadlines pursuant to

                 Section 69A.3.10.2.

          f.     A Market Participant shall submit generator availability data (including, but not

                 limited to, NERC GADS information) into a database provided by the

                 Transmission Provider and as established in the Business Practices Manual for

                 Resource Adequacy. A Market Participant is not required to report generator

                 availability data based on GVTC for a Non-Emergency BTMG less than 10 MW

                 if the Market Participant has never provided such data for such Non-Emergency

                 BTMG. A Market Participant that begins reporting generator availability data

                 based upon GVTC for a Non-Emergency BTMG that is less than 10 MW must

                 continue to report such data.

          g.     A Market Participant for Non-Emergency BMTG shall submit Meter data at

                 regular intervals as set forth in Attachment TT.

   2.     Installed Capacity (ICAP) Deferral

          If a Market Participant for a Non-Emergency BTMG has not completed GVTC testing by

          the deadlines provided in 69A.3.10(e), is not expected to demonstrate deliverability, or is

          otherwise not expected to demonstrate commercial operation prior to March 1, ZRCs

          from such capacity may be used the PRA, in a FRAP (including through bilateral ZRC




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                      69A.3.10
FERC Electric Tariff                           Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                      33.0.0


          transactions), or in an RBDC Opt Out, subject to the notification, credit, and non-

          compliance provisions of Section 69A.7.9.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                           69A.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Planning Resource Capacity Values
MODULES                                                                                        34.0.0


   Planning Resource Capacity Values

   In order for the Transmission Provider to account for resource performance and availability,

   Capacity Resources, Demand Response Resources – Type I, Load Modifying Resources, and

   Non-Emergency Behind the Meter Generation will be given a capacity value for each applicable

   Season based on the Seasonal Accredited Capacity calculation applicable to its Resource type;

   and EE Resources will be given capacity values based on the measurement and verification data

   provided for such resources, as provided in the BPM for Resource Adequacy.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                                                                         69A.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                               Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Capacity Resources
MODULES                                                                                        43.0.0


   Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Capacity Resources

   The Transmission Provider will determine the Seasonal Accredited Capacity for each Capacity

   Resource.

          a.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity for a Capacity Resource that is a Generation

                 Resource, but not a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, Intermittent Generation,

                 Electric Storage Resource, External Resource, Use Limited Resource, or a ZG

                 Resource, is based on an evaluation of the type and volume of interconnection

                 service, GVTC value, and Real-Time offered availability of such Generation

                 Resource or Electric Storage Resource for each Season as set forth in Schedule

                 53.

          b.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity for a Capacity Resource that is an External

                 Resource, but not a Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, Intermittent Generation

                 or Use Limited Resource, is based on the GVTC value and XEFORd values of

                 such External Resource for each Season. External Resources that are not required

                 to report generator availability data will have a forced outage rate based on the

                 class average forced outage rate of the resource type.

          c.     The Transmission Provider will determine the Seasonal Accredited Capacity for a

                 DRR that qualifies as a Capacity Resource and that interrupts or controls Load,

                 based upon historical performance and availability, for each Season, as set forth in

                 Schedule 53.

          d.     The Transmission Provider will determine the Seasonal Accredited Capacity for

                 each DRR that qualifies as a Capacity Resource and that is a behind the meter




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Capacity Resources
MODULES                                                                                         43.0.0


                 generation facility based on an evaluation of the GVTC value and Real-Time

                 offered availability for such behind the meter generation facility for each Season

                 as set forth in Schedule 53. If such behind the meter generation facility is

                 interconnected to the Transmission System, the Transmission Provider will

                 consider the type and volume of interconnection service when determining the

                 Seasonal Accredited Capacity.

          e.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity for a Capacity Resource that is a Dispatchable

                 Intermittent Resource or Intermittent Generation will be determined by the

                 Transmission Provider based on historical performance, availability, and type and

                 volume of interconnection service, for each Season in accordance with the BPM

                 for Resource Adequacy.

          f.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity value for a Capacity Resource that is a Hybrid

                 Resource will be established by the Transmission Provider based on the sum of

                 the Seasonal Accredited Capacity values of its respective Electric Facilities for

                 the production and/or storage for later injection of electricity, up to the level of

                 firm interconnection service, prior to a minimum amount of operating data

                 becoming available. Once sufficient operation data is available, as defined in the

                 BPM, the Seasonal Accredited Capacity value for a Hybrid Resource will be

                 determined by the Transmission Provider based on historical performance,

                 availability, and type and volume of interconnection service, for each Season in

                 accordance with the BPM.

          g.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity of a Capacity Resource that is an Electric




                                                                           Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                               Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Capacity Resources
MODULES                                                                                        43.0.0


                 Storage Resource will be established by the Transmission Provider based on an

                 evaluation of the type and volume of interconnection service, a GVTC value

                 based upon a power and energy test, and an XEFORd. Electric Storage Resources

                 that are not required to report generator availability data will have an XEFORd

                 rate based on their class average forced outage rate.

          h.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity for a Capacity Resource that is a Use Limited

                 Resource will be determined by the Transmission Provider based on the type and

                 volume of interconnection service, the GVTC and XEFORd values of such Use

                 Limited Resource in accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy.

          i.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity for a ZG Resource shall be determined based

                 on its participation type as set forth above, subject to the following additional

                 requirements:

                 1.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity of a ZG Resource is capped at the

                        specified portion of the Coincident Peak Demand forecast attributable to

                        the ZG Associated Load less any SAC assigned to the ZG Associated

                        Load.

                 2.     The Seasonal Accredited Capacity of a ZG Resource shall be grossed-up

                        by the amount of avoided Transmission Losses, as set forth in Section

                        68A.8.b.




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                        69A.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Demand Resources
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


   Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Demand Resources

   The Transmission Provider will determine the appropriate Seasonal Accredited Capacity value

   for Demand Resources that qualify as a Planning Resource as established in the BPM for

   Resource Adequacy.

   For the 2026 / 2027 and 2027 / 2028 Planning Years, a Market Participant may request an initial

   Seasonal Accredited Capacity of a Demand Resource not using the firm service level baseline up

   to the registered capacity value as set forth in Section 69A.3.5.j for Demand Resources

   performing a real power test, or as set forth in the Business Practices Manual for Resource

   Adequacy if waiving the requirement to perform a real power test. For a Demand Resource that

   is using the firm service level baseline, the Seasonal Accredited Capacity will be equal to the

   Demand Resource’s contribution to the Coincident Peak Demand of the appropriate LSE/EDC

   less the firm service level as set forth in the Business Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy.




                                                                              Effective On: July 15, 2025
MISO                                                                                   69A.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff             Seasonal Accredited Capacity of BTMG and Non-Emergency BTMG
MODULES                                                                                  33.0.0


   Seasonal Accredited Capacity of Behind the Meter Generation and Non-Emergency Behind

   the Meter Generation

   The Transmission Provider will determine the Seasonal Accredited Capacity for each BTMG and

   Non-Emergency BTMG as set forth in Schedule 53B. If such BTMG or Non-Emergency

   BTMG is interconnected to the Transmission System, the Transmission Provider will consider

   the type and volume of interconnection service when determining the Seasonal Accredited

   Capacity.




                                                                    Effective On: September 1, 2027
MISO                                   69A.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                RESERVED
MODULES                                 34.0.0




                       Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             69A.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Attributes of ZRCs
MODULES                                                                                            42.0.0


   Attributes of ZRCs

   A Market Participant that owns or possesses equivalent contractual rights to a qualified Planning

   Resource can convert the convertible Seasonal Accredited Capacity of the Resource (Seasonal

   Accredited Capacity MW) as determined in section 69.A.3.1.g into ZRCs through the MECT in

   order to offer such ZRCs into a PRA. Market Participants also can unconvert and/or transfer

   ZRCs through the MECT to another Market Participant, as described in the BPM for Resource

   Adequacy. All ZRCs associated with a ZG Resource must be used as part of an LSE’s Fixed

   Resource Adequacy Plan (FRAP) or RBDC Opt Out.

   A.     Eligibility for Zonal Resource Credits for a Capacity Resource that is a Planning

   Resource that is not Intermittent Generation or Dispatchable Intermittent Resource.

   For a Capacity Resource that is not Intermittent Generation or Dispatchable Intermittent

   Resource the amount of Capacity that is eligible to be converted to Zonal Resource Credits shall

   be the convertible Seasonal Accredited Capacity value of the Capacity Resource. The

   convertible Seasonal Accredited Capacity shall be determined by:

          i.      Determining the Installed Capacity;

          ii.     Determining the Seasonal Accredited Capacity of the Capacity Resource;

          iii.    Allocating the Capacity Resource’s Seasonal Accredited Capacity value where:

                  a. If the Capacity Resource has only Energy Resource Interconnection Service,

                       the Seasonal Accredited Capacity will be allocated to the Capacity Resource’s

                       Energy Resource Interconnection Service Seasonal Accredited Capacity

                       value, which will be calculated by multiplying the lesser of the Capacity




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                             69A.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Attributes of ZRCs
MODULES                                                                                            42.0.0


                       Resource’s ICAP or Energy Resource Interconnection Service by SAC

                       divided by ICAP;

                 b. If the Capacity Resource has both Network Resource Interconnection Service

                       and Energy Resource Interconnection Service, the Seasonal Accredited

                       Capacity will be allocated first to the Capacity Resource’s Network Resource

                       Interconnection Service Seasonal Accredited Capacity value, which will be

                       calculated by multiplying the lesser of the Capacity Resource’s ICAP or

                       Network Resource Interconnection Service by SAC divided by ICAP, as

                       provided below:

                       NRIS SAC = MIN (NRIS, ICAP) × (SAC/ICAP)

                 c. Any remaining total Seasonal Accredited Capacity value will then be

                       allocated to Energy Resource Interconnection Service Seasonal Accredited

                       Capacity as provided below:

                       ERIS SAC = MAX (0, (ICAP-NRIS)) × (SAC/ICAP)

                 d. The resulting Network Resource Interconnection Service Seasonal Accredited

                       Capacity value shall be eligible to be converted into Zonal Resource Credits;

                       and

                 e. The resulting Energy Resource Interconnection Service Seasonal Accredited

                       Capacity value that is coupled with firm Transmission Service shall be

                       eligible to be converted into Zonal Resource Credits up to the Energy

                       Resource Interconnection Service Unforced Capacity value of the Capacity




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                              69A.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Attributes of ZRCs
MODULES                                                                                             42.0.0


                       Resource, by multiplying the firm Transmission Service amount by SAC

                       divided by ICAP.

                  f. If the Capacity Resource has ZG Interconnection Service, the Seasonal

                       Accredited Capacity will be allocated as one-hundred percent (100%) of SAC.

   B.     Eligibility for Zonal Resource Credits for a Capacity Resource that is an

   Intermittent Generation or Dispatchable Intermittent Resource

   For Intermittent Generation and Dispatchable Intermittent Resources that are Capacity

   Resources, the amount of Capacity eligible to be converted to Zonal Resource Credits shall be

   the convertible Seasonal Accredited Capacity value of the Intermittent Generation or

   Dispatchable Intermittent Resource, which is equal to the total Seasonal Accredited Capacity

   value multiplied by the quotient of the deliverability adjusted Capacity factor divided by the peak

   performance Capacity factor of the Capacity Resource where:

          a.      the deliverability-adjusted capacity factor is the average of the actual Energy

                  output capped at the demonstrated deliverability of the Intermittent Generation or

                  Dispatchable Intermittent Resource determined in Section 69A.3.1.g during the

                  highest system peak load observances for each Season that the Capacity Resource

                  was in service divided by the Installed Capacity of the Capacity Resource; and,

          b.      the existing peak performance Capacity factor is the average of the actual Energy

                  output during the highest system peak load observances for each Season that the

                  Capacity Resource was in service divided by the Installed Capacity of the

                  Capacity Resource.




                                                                          Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                             69A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                         Capacity Resource Must Offer and Performance Requirements
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


   Capacity Resource Must Offer and Performance Requirements

   a.     Market Participants that convert Seasonal Accredited Capacity from Capacity Resources

          into ZRCs that clear in a Season in the PRA or are used in a FRAP (and that do not

          replace such ZRCs in accordance with Section 69A.3.1.h) or used in an RBDC Opt Out,

          including Capacity Resources that are the subject of Diversity Contracts, must submit

          Self-Schedules or Offers for Energy, and Contingency Reserve if qualified, and offers for

          Short-Term Reserve if qualified, for the Installed Capacity value of the Capacity

          Resources converted to ZRCs and clear in a Season in the PRA or used in a FRAP or

          used in an RBDC Opt Out for each Hour of each Day during the applicable Season in the

          Planning Year, in the Day-Ahead Energy Market and all pre Day-Ahead and the first post

          Day-Ahead Reliability Assessment Commitment process. This must offer obligation

          does not apply to the extent that the Capacity Resource is unavailable due to a full or

          partial forced or scheduled outage, in accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy

          and the BPM for Outage Operations. Additionally, this must offer obligation is modified

          to the extent the Capacity Resource is provided an operating limitation, such as thermal,

          voltage, or stability limits referenced in the BPM for Outage Operations, by the

          Transmission Provider or Transmission Operator to preserve the reliability of the

          Transmission System, that is lower than the must offer obligation described above, for

          the duration of such limitation.

          Any such Capacity Resource with full or partial Generator Planned Outages that exceeds

          thirty-one (31) Days during any Season will be deemed not to have met its performance

          requirement for any Days greater than thirty-one (31) Days and must replace ZRCs in




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                     Capacity Resource Must Offer and Performance Requirements
MODULES                                                                                      39.0.0


          accordance with Section 69A.3.1.h, provided that Capacity Resources subject to

          Diversity Contracts that are unavailable for greater than thirty-one (31) Days in total

          during any Season, will be deemed not to have met its performance requirement and will

          be subject to the ZRC replacement provisions set forth in Section 69A.3.1.h.

          Self-Schedules or Offers for Energy must be made consistent with requirements specified

          in Sections 39 and 40 of this Tariff as well as in the BPM for Resource Adequacy and the

          Business Practices Manual for Energy and Operating Reserves Markets. Partial or full

          forced or scheduled outages or derates of Capacity Resources (other than DRRs) must be

          reported in the Transmission Provider’s Outage Scheduler, as described in further detail

          in the Business Practices Manual for Outage Operations. Must offer requirements

          specified in the BPM for Resource Adequacy will reflect resource operational limitations,

          including those related to Use Limited Resources, fuel limited, energy output limited or

          Intermittent Generation and including all state regulations and laws, including but not

          limited to, state safety standards, planning reserve margins, or the enforcement thereof.

          The Transmission Provider will monitor compliance with must offer requirements in

          accordance with the BPM for Resource Adequacy.

   b.     If a Capacity Resource that has ZRCs cleared in the PRA during any Season or is used in

          a FRAP during any Season or used in an RBDC Opt Out is capable of performing but

          fails to perform when called upon by the Transmission Provider for an Emergency, the

          Transmission Provider shall assess the owner of such Capacity Resource the costs that

          were otherwise incurred to replace the energy from the deficient Capacity Resource at the

          time that the Capacity Resource is called upon by the Transmission Provider and does not




                                                                              Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        69A.5
FERC Electric Tariff                    Capacity Resource Must Offer and Performance Requirements
MODULES                                                                                     39.0.0


          respond in full or in part, for each day of non-performance of such Capacity Resource,

          provided that the planned or forced outage of the Capacity Resource is not properly

          reported in the Transmission Provider’s Outage Scheduler, as set forth in the Business

          Practices Manual for Outage Operations. These costs will be the product of the amount

          of qualified ZRCs not achieved and the real-time LMP at the Capacity Resource’s

          CPNode, plus any applicable related Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee charges. The

          Transmission Provider shall allocate any such revenues to the Market Participants

          representing the LSEs in the Local Balancing Authority Area(s) that experienced the

          Emergency. Such revenues shall be distributed on a Load Ratio Share basis.

   c.     Market Participants must input all Load Modifying Resource information into the MECT

          at least seven (7) Business Days prior to the Planning Resource Auction.




                                                                            Effective On: June 1, 2026
MISO                                       69A.6
FERC Electric Tariff                      Reports
MODULES                                    31.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                             69A.6.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 State RAR Standards
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   State RAR Standards

   The Transmission Provider will assist states in meeting any state resource adequacy standards by

   providing relevant MECT information as available and as may be requested by states, subject to

   the data confidentiality provisions in Section 38.9 of this Tariff. Nothing in the RAR shall

   prohibit any state from requesting data relating to state safety standards, planning reserve

   margins, or the enforcement thereof.




                                                                             Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                          69A.6.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Information regarding RAR obligations
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   Information regarding RAR Obligations

   The Transmission Provider will maintain databases and will report to states and the affected

   LSEs, upon request, aggregated, non-confidential information regarding jurisdictional LSEs’

   RAR obligations during relevant time periods. Confidential Data regarding RAR status will be

   provided to states only in accordance with the data confidentiality provisions in Section 38.9 of

   this Tariff.




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                              69A.6.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Facilitation of a Bilateral Capacity Bulletin Board
MODULES                                                                                             32.0.0


   Facilitation of a Bilateral Capacity Bulletin Board

   The Transmission Provider shall maintain an electronic bulletin board platform that may be used

   by Market Participants to facilitate voluntary bilateral ZRC transactions and to monitor the

   conversion of Seasonal Accredited Capacity to ZRCs.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2022
MISO                                                                                             69A.6.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Facilitation of LSE's RAR Information
MODULES                                                                                           32.0.0


   Facilitation of LSE’s RAR Information

   The Transmission Provider shall, upon request, submit RAR information to the applicable RE,

   Electric Reliability Organization, state (in the case of an LSE subject to regulation or using

   delivery services rates, terms or conditions established by such State Regulatory Authority) or to

   the Commission, subject to the provisions of Section 38.9 of this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 30, 2024
MISO                                                                                           69A.7A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   RBDC Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         32.0.0


   Reliability Based Demand Curve Procedures

   A.     Translation of MRI Curves to RBDCs

          The following process will be utilized to determine the RBDC for the Transmission

   Provider Region for each Season of the upcoming Planning Year. The MRI Curves for the

   Transmission Provider Region as described in Section 68A.9 will be multiplied by a scaling

   factor measured in $/MWh. The scaling factor for an RBDC is calculated to support ACPs that

   achieve annual Net CONE when the Transmission Provider Region is at the reliability

   requirement established by the LOLE analysis for each Season. LOLE risk across the Seasons is

   modeled as described in Section 68A.2.1. The scaling factors shall be determined as set forth in

   the Business Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy.

          The process used to determine the RBDCs for each of the First Planning Area and the

   Second Planning Area for each Season in the Planning Year is similar to the process used for

   developing the RBDC curve for the Transmission Provider Region.

   B.     Monte Carlo Analysis

          Every three Planning Years, the Transmission Provider will evaluate the ability of

   RBDCs, through probabilistic analysis, to reliably serve the Transmission Provider Region’s

   Demand while supporting ACPs that achieve annual Net CONE when the Transmission Provider

   Region is at the reliability requirement established by the LOLE analysis for each Season. The

   probabilistic analysis shall use a Monte Carlo study that assumes there are no internal

   transmission limitations within the Transmission Provider Region.

          The Monte Carlo analysis will model both in-market supply and demand based on

   historic supply and demand variability, respectively, observed through a minimum of the three




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                          69A.7A
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  RBDC Procedures
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   most recent PRAs. The Monte Carlo model will produce seasonal clearing prices and quantities

   with each draw. Overall model results will be assessed by comparing the average of seasonal

   prices from the study against the estimate of Net CONE described in section 69A.8. The scaling

   factor is adjusted in each successive Monte Carlo simulation so that long run equilibrium

   conditions are ultimately achieved, indicated by the average of seasonal prices from the study

   equal to the estimate of Net CONE. Net CONE values used for the Monte Carlo analysis will be

   the simple arithmetic average of all LRZ Net CONE values.

          A separate Monte Carlo analysis will be performed to evaluate the RBDCs for the First

   Planning Area and the Second Planning Area. Separate scaling factors will be used in the Monte

   Carlo analysis for each of the First Planning Area and the Second Planning Area that supports

   achievement of Net CONE values for the corresponding Planning Area, indicated by the average

   of seasonal capacity prices under long run equilibrium conditions. Net CONE values used in the

   Monte Carlo analysis for the RBDCs for the First Planning Area and the Second Planning Area

   will be the simple arithmetic average of LRZ Net CONE values for the specific LRZs in the

   corresponding Planning Area.




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                           69A.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                        36.0.0


   Planning Resource Auction

   Within twenty (20) Business Days after the last Business Day in March, the Transmission

   Provider will conduct a PRA to determine the ACP in each LRZ and ERZ for the upcoming

   Planning Year which begins on June 1st. The Transmission Provider will post the results of the

   PRA on its website, consistent with the standards and procedures set forth in the BPM for

   Resource Adequacy. The Transmission Provider shall ensure that each Market Participant

   submitting a ZRC Offer is qualified to submit such an offer consistent with the Transmission

   Provider’s creditworthiness provisions. The Transmission Provider will ensure that the LCR, the

   CEL and CIL are respected for each LRZ, the CEL is respected for each ERZ, and the SREC and

   the SRIC are respected for each SRRZ, if applicable, when conducting the PRA.




                                                                            Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                            69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                          52.0.0


   PRA Procedures

          a.     Participating ZRCs in the PRA: All Market Participants that own or have

          contractual rights to the Planning Resources that are represented within an LRZ or ERZ

          and have converted Seasonal Accredited Capacity to ZRCs, will have an option to

          (consistent with withholding provisions) submit offers into the PRA for such ZRCs, to

          the extent that the Market Participant has not submitted a FRAP, or RBDC Opt Out, as

          described in Section 69A.9. Owners of jointly-owned facilities can individually offer

          their share of any such resources into the PRA, either as self-schedule price takers or with

          specific offers, or use their share of such resources as part of their FRAPs, or RBDC Opt

          Outs. These ZRC Offers must be submitted in price/quantity pairs on a monotonically

          increasing basis expressed as MW-day and must consist of a stepped ZRC Offer curve of

          up to five (5) segments for each Planning Resource. ZRC Offers shall be submitted to

          the Transmission Provider via the MECT during the PRA offer window. Only ZRCs that

          are not otherwise committed for the remainder of the Planning Year are permitted to

          participate in the PRA. The PRA offer window shall begin at 8:00 am EPT three (3)

          Business Days before the last Business Day in March and shall end at 6:00 pm EPT on

          the last Business Day in March. The Transmission Provider may extend or reopen the

          PRA offer window based on unanticipated events that: (i) interfere with the Transmission

          Provider’s ability to receive and/or process accurate and complete ZRC Offers or (ii) are

          otherwise likely to have a widespread negative impact on the results of the PRA. The

          Transmission Provider shall notify Market Participants and post such notice of any

          extension or reopening of the PRA on its website. The notice shall state the extension or




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         52.0.0


          reopening’s circumstances, rationale, and duration. The price associated with these ZRC

          Offers cannot exceed the annual CONE value divided by the number of days in the

          Season for the LRZ where the ZRC is represented. ZRC Offers from External Resources

          represented in ERZs, which are connected to single SRRZ, cannot exceed the greatest

          CONE value of all LRZs in respective SRRZ. ZRC Offers from External Resources

          represented in ERZs, which are connected to multiple SRRZs or are not connected to any

          SRRZs, cannot exceed the greatest CONE value of all LRZs in those connected SRRZs.

          Owners of ZRCs may bilaterally sell or buy ZRCs; however if a ZRC has cleared in the

          auction, the Market Participant that registered the Planning Resource that is the subject

          of such ZRC shall be responsible for complying with all Tariff requirements. The

          Independent Market Monitor will review the actions of owners/operators of all qualified

          Seasonal Accredited Capacity from Planning Resources and conversion to ZRCs to

          evaluate potential withholding of Planning Resources from the PRA, consistent with

          Module D. External Resources, including Generation Resources pseudo-tied into the

          MISO Balancing Authority Area, will be granted ZRCs in the applicable External

          Resource Zone. Notwithstanding the above, External Resources located within a

          Coordinating Owner that (i) borders the Transmission Provider Region; (ii) whose

          external ties are predominantly to the Transmission System; and (iii) has Seams

          Operating Agreements that allow for coordinated operations, will be granted ZRCs in the

          LRZ where their firm transmission service crosses the border of the Transmission

          Provider Region, and Border External Resources will be granted ZRCs in the LRZ where

          the Transmission System connects to the substation with its interconnection facilities.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                             69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                      PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                           52.0.0


          Generation Resources, Intermittent Generation, Electric Storage Resources, and

          Dispatchable Intermittent Resources will have to meet the terms of Section 69A.3.1.g.

          To the extent a Capacity Resource is located on the border of two or more LRZs (e.g., has

          transmission lines from two or more LRZs terminating at the substation containing the

          Capacity Resource’s interconnection facilities), the Capacity Resource will be assigned to

          an LRZ as follows:

          (i)    if the Capacity Resource is located within the MISO BA, MISO will assign that

                 Capacity Resource to the LRZ that contains the Local Balancing Authority in

                 which the Capacity Resource is physically located; or

          (ii)   if the Capacity Resource is a Border External Resource, MISO will assign that

                 Capacity Resource to the LRZ with which it has the greatest electrical connection.

                 This connection will be determined by the impacts of the Resource on the system,

                 including (i) the electrical loading of transmission facilities within and tying to the

                 Zone and (ii) the transmission constraints which define the CIL and CEL for the

                 Zone.

          Once assigned, Capacity Resources which border two or more LRZs will not be

          reassigned unless significant changes occur in the Transmission Provider Region,

          including but not limited to, significant changes in LRZ boundaries, membership, the

          Transmission System, and/or Resources.

          b.     Participating Demand: All LSEs will be required to meet their Final PRMR

          through the PRA process, unless they have decided to pay the Capacity Deficiency

          Charge. LSEs can Self-Schedule ZRCs to meet their PRMR, consistent with the Self-




                                                                             Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         52.0.0


          Scheduling Option in Section 69A.7.8. The Transmission Provider will conduct the PRA

          based upon the PRMR for the Transmission Provider Region minus the amount of PRMR

          associated with the Capacity Deficiency Charge, expressed as a variable reliability target

          through RBDCs for all of the LSEs located within the Transmission Provider Region.

          c.     Conducting the PRA: The Transmission Provider will conduct the PRA for each

          Season using the following auction procedures to determine the ACP for each LRZ and

          ERZ. The PRA shall be designed to commit resources equal to the Final PRMR

          determined by application of the RBDC for each LSE, minus the amount of PRMR

          associated with the Capacity Deficiency Charge but including resources used in a FRAP

          and an RBDC Opt Out, in each LRZ up to the total volume of offered ZRCs. All ZRCs

          offered at zero price will clear the PRA. The PRA shall clear for each LRZ and ERZ of

          the Transmission Provider Region. A multi-zone optimization methodology shall be

          employed to simultaneously perform the following tasks: (1) conduct the PRA to meet

          the supply and demand balance both for the Transmission Provider Region and for each

          of the First Planning Area and the Second Planning Area by clearing ZRC Offers and

          establishing the Final PRMR, as determined by application of the RBDCs, minus the

          amount of PRMR associated with the Capacity Deficiency Charge for each LRZ of the

          Transmission Provider Region to yield Cleared ZRCs; (2) meet the LCR for each LRZ;

          (3) efficiently use transmission transfer capability between LRZs and from ERZs; and (4)

          respect the SREC and SRIC for each SRRZ, if applicable.

                 (i) Objective Function: The objective of the multi-zone optimization

                 methodology shall be to maximize social surplus, using the as-offered overall




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                          52.0.0


                 costs of capacity procurement and the as-bid overall benefits of capacity

                 procurement reflected in the RBDCs over the time horizon, subject to LCR,

                 network constraints, and SRICs and SRECs, if applicable. The overall costs will

                 include the ZRC Offers of all Planning Resources selected for Cleared ZRCs.

                 CILs of each LRZ are simultaneous to the extent that imports into the LRZ are

                 concurrently simulated; and CELs of each LRZ and ERZ are simultaneous to the

                 extent that exports out of the relevant LRZ or ERZ are concurrently simulated.

                 Network constraints will be represented by an initial set of zonal CELs and CILs,

                 driven by the dispatch from planning models. The CELs and CILs will be

                 reviewed by the Transmission Provider to determine if there are network loading

                 violations when based on the geographical dispatch derived from the initial

                 auction clearing. If no network violation is indicated, then the auction results are

                 final. If a network violation is indicated, then reductions will be made to the

                 affected export and import capabilities to avoid network violations and the

                 auction will be cleared again with the new set of export and import capabilities.

                 After a maximum of two (2) successive iterations per Season to address network

                 violations, the auction clearing iteration with the fewest megawatts of network

                 violations will be deemed as the final auction result.

                 (ii) Time Horizon: For purposes of clearing the system-wide PRMR the time

                 horizon is an hour, representing the projected maximum Coincident Peak

                 Demand. For a Local Resource Zone, the time horizon is the hour representing

                 the Local Resource Zone Peak Demand, over each Season for the next Planning




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                       52.0.0


                 Year for the Transmission Provider Region. Coincident Peak Demand is used to

                 establish an LSE’s Initial PRMR while Local Resource Zone Peak Demand is

                 used to establish an LRZ’s LRR.

                 (iii) Capacity Market and Congestion Management: The multi-zone

                 optimization methodology will perform congestion management simultaneously

                 with the scheduling of capacity for each Season in the Planning Year. Congestion

                 management is the process where ZRCs are cleared to eliminate network

                 constraint violations and to maximize the social surplus of procuring PRMR to

                 meet applicable reliability standards.

                 (iv) Model of Transmission Provider Transmission System: The multi-zone

                 optimization methodology will enforce network constraints represented by CILs,

                 CELs and LCRs that are obtained by using a model of the transmission system

                 including Planning Resources and Demand which will be updated annually to

                 reflect existing and planned transmission and generation projects. Transmission

                 and Planning Resources shall be modeled as part of the multi-zone optimization

                 methodology to reflect their expected state during the peak Hour of each Season

                 in the Transmission Provider Region. The model is of zonal form, which shall

                 include all Planning Resources, Demand, and a representation of systems external

                 to the Transmission Provider Region, and which will be consistent with seams

                 agreements with neighboring regions.

                        Network Constraints. The multi-zone optimization methodology shall

                        enforce constraints on transmission lines, transformers, and groups of




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                     PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                          52.0.0


                        transmission branches that compose transmission interfaces represented by

                        LCR, CIL, and CEL. Most of these constraints shall represent thermal

                        limits on the power flow through transmission facilities. Certain

                        constraints may impose more restrictive limits on power flow, taking into

                        account contingencies and typically represented through operating guides.

                        Transmission Losses. The multi-zone optimization methodology will

                        clear ZRCs to cover transmission losses; the PRMR will include estimates

                        of transmission losses in its calculation for each Season.

                 (v) LRZ ACP Calculation: The Auction Clearing Price (ACP) for an LRZ is

                 the marginal cost of serving the Demand in that LRZ. The ACP is composed of

                 the system marginal cost of capacity, the regional marginal cost of capacity, the

                 marginal cost of financially binding LCR, CEL, and CIL for a LRZ, (i.e., network

                 constraints that are active at the optimal solution prohibiting a lower cost

                 outcome), and the marginal cost of financially binding SRECs and SRICs for

                 SRRZs, if applicable.    The ACP is calculated by considering the next increment

                 or decrement to Demand for each LRZ. The Transmission Provider will calculate

                 ACPs for each LRZ. For accounting purposes, ACP will be expressed in dollars

                 per megawatt-day ($/MW-day).

                 (vi) External Resource Zone (ERZ) ACP: The ACP for an ERZ is comprised

                 of the system marginal cost of capacity, marginal cost of financially binding CEL

                 for the ERZ, the marginal cost of financially binding SRECs and SRICs for SRRZ

                 with which the ERZ interconnects. For ERZs which connect with more than one




                                                                            Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         52.0.0


                 SRRZ, or which do not directly connect to a single SRRZ, a weighted average of

                 the marginal cost of financially binding SREC and SRIC will be applied, with

                 weights derived from the distribution of annual energy flows into the SRRZs from

                 the ERZ. For accounting purposes, ACP will be expressed in dollars per

                 megawatt-day ($/MW-day).

                 (vii) ACP Inputs: Primary inputs to the ACP calculation are network constraints

                 represented by CIL, CEL, LCR, and other constraints established by the

                 Transmission Provider associated with SRECs and SRICs for SRRZs in

                 accordance with applicable seams agreements, coordination agreements, or

                 transmission service agreements and the set of valid ZRC Offers and the Final

                 PRMR for the Transmission Provider Region minus the amount of Initial PRMR

                 associated with the Capacity Deficiency Charge for each LRZ. Valid ZRC Offers

                 may include offers from ZRCs converted from confirmed Seasonal Accredited

                 Capacity from Planning Resources. ZRC Offers can be submitted as Self-

                 Schedules, in accordance with Section 69A.7.8.

                 (viii) ACP Outputs: For non-zero ACPs, Resources that set the ACP in a LRZ

                 or ERZ will be cleared in proportion to the amount of ZRCs necessary to meet the

                 Final PRMR. When more than one resource is marginal and offered at the ACP,

                 then all resources offered at the ACP are cleared pro rata up to the amount

                 required to meet the reliability requirement. This may result in a portion of

                 multiple Resources clearing as the marginal resources that set the ACP.

                 (ix) Eligibility Rules: ACPs can be set by any ZRC Offers.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                        52.0.0


                 (x) ACP for multiple Seasons with ZRC Shortage Conditions or ZRC Near-

                 Shortage Conditions to meet Local Clearing Requirements:

                        When an LRZ has more than one Season in any combination of ZRC

                 Shortage Conditions and/or ZRC Near-Shortage Conditions the final Auction

                 Clearing Price (ACP) for the LRZ will be set as the minimum of: (a) the original

                 ACP as determined in Section 69A.7.1.c.(v) reflecting the effective financial

                 binding of an LCR constraint; or (b) the summation of: (i) the amount composed

                 of the system marginal cost of capacity, the regional marginal cost of capacity,

                 and the marginal cost of financially binding SRECs and SRICs for SRRZs, if

                 applicable; and (ii) the LCR price adder. The LCR price adder will be set as the

                 amount obtained by dividing the applicable LRZ’s annual CONE value by the

                 summation of the number of days in Seasons in each Season of the Planning Year

                 in which the LRZ was in ZRC Shortage Conditions in the Planning Resource

                 Auction and the number of days in each Seasons of the Planning Year in which

                 the LRZ was in ZRC Near-Shortage Conditions in the Planning Resource

                 Auction.

                 (xi) Notification: ACPs and total summarized Cleared ZRC Offers determined

                 as described above shall be calculated and published by the Transmission

                 Provider by 11:59 pm EST on the twentieth Business Day following the last

                 Business Day in March. The Transmission Provider may extend the publishing

                 deadline based on unanticipated events that: (i) interfered with the Transmission

                 Provider’s ability to receive and/or process accurate and complete ZRC Offers or




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Procedures
MODULES                                                                                         52.0.0


                 (ii) were otherwise likely to have a widespread negative impact on the results of

                 the PRA. The Transmission Provider shall notify Market Participants and post

                 such notice of any extension of publishing the results of the PRA on its website.

                 The notice shall state the extension’s circumstances, rationale, and duration.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Consequences of PRA
MODULES                                                                                      32.0.0


   Consequences of PRA

   All PRA transactions will be financially binding. Market Participants with Cleared ZRC Offers

   must comply with all of the ZRC requirements for all ZRCs that clear in the PRA.




                                                                         Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.7.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Uncleared ZRCs
MODULES                                                                                     34.0.0


   Uncleared ZRCs

   Once the PRA has concluded, a Market Participant may convert back to Seasonal Accredited

   Capacity any ZRCs that do not clear in the PRA. ZRCs associated with a ZG Resource that are

   not used in a FRAP may not be used as Uncleared ZRCs.




                                                                     Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.7.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Reporting
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   PRA Reporting

   The Transmission Provider will not reveal the ZRC Offers submitted by any Market Participant

   in a PRA until one (1) month following the completion of the PRA, except as required pursuant

   to the provisions of Section 38.9 of the Tariff. When the ZRC Offers are posted, price/quantity

   pairs will be made public, however the names of the Market Participants submitting such offers

   and the names of the Planning Resources offered shall not be publicly revealed.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                            69A.7.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Market Monitoring
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   Market Monitoring

   All actions of Market Participants participating or failing to participate in the PRA shall be

   subject to the provisions of Module D, except to the extent that a Market Participant has opted

   out of the PRA as described in Section 69A.9. The Transmission Provider will report any known

   attempt to exercise market power by LSEs or by Market Participants in the PRA procedures to

   the Independent Market Monitor.




                                                                              Effective On: March 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                          69A.7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Settlement
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


   PRA Settlement

          a.     Cleared ZRC Offers will be settled at the ACP for the LRZ or ERZ where the

                 ZRC is represented on a daily basis and the Market Participants submitting

                 Cleared ZRC Offers will be credited on a weekly basis by the Transmission

                 Provider. The Transmission Provider will settle the LSEs cost of their Final

                 PRMR minus the amount of PRMR associated with the Capacity Deficiency

                 Charge at the ACP for the LRZ where the Demand is located on a daily basis and

                 will debit LSEs weekly, to the extent that an LSE has not opted out of the PRA

                 pursuant to Section 69A.9 or submitted an RBDC Opt Out pursuant to Section

                 69A.9.1. For LSEs not selecting RBDC Opt Out, the Final PRMR will be

                 established based on the financial binding of RBDCs representing the

                 Transmission Provider Region and applicable planning area (i.e., the First

                 Planning Area or the Second Planning Area).

                 Final PRMRs will be determined as follows:

                 i.     LSEs using the RBDC Opt Out will have Final PRMRs calculated by

                        multiplying the LSE’s forecasted Coincident Peak Demand for each

                        Season, including transmission losses, by (1 + Transmission Provider

                        Region PRM + RBDC Opt Out Adder).

                 ii.    LSEs not using the RBDC Opt Out will have Final PRMRs calculated

                        using the formula below:




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        69A.7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  PRA Settlement
MODULES                                                                                        39.0.0




                 iii.   LSEs under state jurisdiction where the State Regulatory Authority has

                        overridden the PRM established by the Transmission Provider will have

                        Final PRMRs for each Season calculated by multiplying the LSE’s

                        forecasted Coincident Peak Demand for each Season, including

                        transmission losses, by (1 + the planning reserve margin established by the

                        State Regulatory Authority).

                 The Transmission Provider will financially net the ZRC credits and LSE debits

                 for Market Participants. Market Participants with Cleared ZRCs sourced from

                 Diversity Contracts will receive reduced credit for any ZRC volumes cleared

                 above their PRMR up to the cleared volume of ZRCs from Diversity Contracts.

                 The reduced compensation will be based on the total number of days the capacity

                 from the Diversity Contract is dedicated to Demand in the Transmission Provider

                 Region in each Season divided by the total number of days in the Season.

          b.     An LSE that submits a FRAP or an RBDC Opt Out with PRMR in an LRZ and

                 ZRCs in an ERZ or a separate LRZ may be subject to a ZDC, as described below:

                 (i) The Zonal Deliverability Charge will be the maximum of: (a) the difference

                 between the ACP for the LSE’s PRMR within an LRZ where an LSE has Demand



                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Settlement
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


                 that is not met by ZRCs from Planning Resources that are represented in such

                 LRZ and the ACP in the LRZ or ERZ where the LSE’s ZRCs are represented; or

                 (b) zero. The Transmission Provider will multiply the ZDC by the ZRCs to

                 obtain the deliverability charge that the Transmission Provider will assess the

                 LSE. The Zonal Deliverability Charge will only be assessed to an LSE's Load

                 that is part of a FRAP or for LSEs submitting ZRCs for an RBDC Opt Out.

          c.     Any portion of an LSE's PRMR not covered by the FRAP, minus the amount of

                 PRMR associated with the Capacity Deficiency Charge, shall be purchased

                 through the PRA. An LSE will be charged the applicable ACP for any PRMR

                 that is not recovered by ZRCs in a FRAP.

          d.     For instances where a LRZ clears under ZRC Shortage Conditions or ZRC Near-

                 Shortage Conditions to meet Local Clearing Requirement in more than one

                 Season in a Planning Resource Auction and final ACPs are adjusted per Section

                 69A.7.1.c.(x), certain Cleared ZRC Offers may exceed the final ACPs. In this

                 case, such Cleared ZRCs may be eligible for a ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency

                 Credit, to the extent that settlement amounts credited in paragraph 69A.7.6.a

                 above for a Planning Year are insufficient to cover Allowable ZRC Offer Costs,

                 needed to be incurred by the Planning Resource to be available for cleared

                 Seasons.

                 ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency Credit will be calculated as the greater of: (i)

                 zero; or, (ii) the difference between Allowable ZRC Offer Costs, and the total

                 settlement amounts credited per paragraph 69A.7.6.a for the associated Cleared




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.7.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                    PRA Settlement
MODULES                                                                                          39.0.0


                 ZRC Offers for all Seasons in a Planning Year.

                 Where Allowable ZRC Offer Costs shall equal the minimum of: (i) the sum of all

                 Cleared ZRC Offer segment volumes multiplied by the ZRC Offer segment price,

                 multiplied by the number of Days in the Season, calculated for all Seasons for

                 which the ZRCs clear in the Planning Resource Auction; or, (ii) the annual CONE

                 for the LRZ where the ZRCs are represented; or, (iii) the applicable facility-

                 specific Reference Level costs for the Planning Resource, if a Market Participant

                 received a facility-specific Reference Level per Section 64.1.4.

                 ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency Credits will be allocated pro-rata across the

                 Seasons where the ZRC Offer cleared for settlement and distribution.

          e.     ZRC Offer Revenue Sufficiency Charges will be assessed as the sum of all ZRC

                 Offer Revenue Sufficiency Credits for a Season distributed to Market Participants

                 representing LSEs in an LRZ clearing under ZRC Shortage Conditions or ZRC

                 Near-Shortage Conditions on a pro rata basis, based upon their respective LSE’s

                 share of Final PRMR minus the Initial PRMR associated with the Capacity

                 Deficiency Charge in the appropriate LRZ.




                                                                           Effective On: March 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                            69A.7.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Distribution of Excess Auction Revenue
MODULES                                                                                           33.0.0


   Distribution of Excess Auction Revenue

   The following provisions address situations where LSEs will be entitled to receive financial

   benefits on contractual commitments and/or use of the Transmission System. These benefits will

   provide LSEs with financial hedges for ACP separation between LRZs and/or ERZs based on

   excess revenue from the Planning Resource Auction.

   The Transmission Provider will distribute any such excess revenues in two stages:

          (i)     in the first stage, the Transmission Provider shall distribute such excess revenues

                  to LSEs qualifying for Historic Unit Considerations (HUCs) as described in

                  Section 69A.7.7(a) and ZDC Hedges as described in Section 69A.7.7.(b), then

          (ii)    any remaining excess revenue will be distributed in accordance with the Zonal

                  Deliverability Benefit provisions of Section 69A.7.7(c).

   The LSE will only receive excess PRA revenue if the ACP paid by the LSE is higher than the

   ACP received for such Planning Resources. If there are not sufficient excess revenues to fully

   fund all Historic Unit Considerations and ZDC Hedges, the revenues will be allocated on a pro

   rata basis to all HUCs and ZDC Hedges.




                                                                        Effective On: November 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                        69A.7.7(a)
FERC Electric Tariff                                                       Historic Unit Considerations
MODULES                                                                                          38.0.0


   Historic Unit Considerations (HUCs)

   The Transmission Provider will allocate excess PRA revenue to LSEs with ownership or

   contractual arrangements, limited to a) Grandfathered Agreements, b) arrangements that predate

   July 20th, 2011, or c) arrangements that predate March 26, 2018 and pertain to External

   Resource represented in External Resource Zones in which:

          i.     The LSE has Initial PRMR obligations equal to or greater than the amount of the

                 Planning Resource designated in the arrangement;

          ii.    The Planning Resource designated in the arrangement and Initial PRMR

                 obligation span multiple LRZs and/or ERZs;

          iii.   The LSE has long-term (five years or more) contracts for or ownership of the

                 Planning Resource and has maintained continuous firm Transmission Service or

                 firm Network Resource Interconnection Service, and in the case of External

                 Resources, firm transmission service on the applicable external Balancing

                 Authority transmission system, for that Planning Resource to the LRZ containing

                 the LSE’s associated Initial PRMR obligation; and

          iv.    LSEs must note qualification for HUCs and submit information supporting HUC

                 eligibility to the Transmission Provider by January 15th prior to the upcoming

                 Planning Year.

   A combination of arrangements that require the delivery of capacity throughout the Planning

   Year will qualify to receive excess PRA revenue through a HUC, provided that the arrangements

   satisfy the criteria herein. If there are more HUCs within a Deliverability Benefit Zone (DBZ)

   Final PRMR minus its LCR, HUC payments will be pro-rated by multiplying the difference




                                                                            Effective On: April 6, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.7.7(a)
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Historic Unit Considerations
MODULES                                                                                           38.0.0


   between Final PRMR and LCR divided by the total HUCs. The volume of MW eligible to

   receive excess PRA revenue will be the lesser of the Cleared ZRCs from the Planning

   Resource(s) or the amount of Final PRMR that are associated with the qualified arrangement. A

   qualified arrangement shall remain eligible to receive excess PRA revenue for the current term of

   the executed contract, excluding any evergreen contract extension, or for two Planning Years,

   whichever is longer. In the event that the owned resource status is changed to retired, the

   transmission service is not maintained, or the arrangement is terminated or otherwise expires, the

   arrangement shall no longer be eligible to receive excess PRA revenue.




                                                                             Effective On: April 6, 2026
MISO                                                                                            69A.7.7(b)
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           ZDC Hedges
MODULES                                                                                             33.0.0


   ZDC Hedges

   An LSE will also be able to receive excess Planning Resource Auction revenue if the LSE

   qualifies for a ZDC Hedge. A ZDC Hedge can result from approved firm Transmission Service

   Request where the source and sink are in separate LRZs or between an LRZ and an ERZ that

   result in required Network Upgrades. The Market Participant that funds the Transmission System

   upgrades that result in an increase in the CIL, as determined by the Transmission Provider, for an

   LRZ where the sink is located, will receive a ZDC Hedge. The Market Participant submitting

   the Transmission Service Request will receive one hundred percent(100%) of the MW volume of

   the CIL increase. ZDC Hedges will be granted based upon the order that the Transmission

   Provider receives Transmission Service Requests. Market Participants must submit information

   supporting ZDC Hedges to the Transmission Provider by November 1st prior to a Planning Year.

   The volume of a ZDC Hedge will be the incremental increase in the CIL that resulted from the

   Network Upgrades identified in the approved firm Transmission Service Request. ZDC Hedges

   will be effective for thirty (30) years or the service life of the Transmission System facility or

   Network Upgrade, whichever is less.




                                                                          Effective On: November 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                          69A.7.7(c)
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Zonal Deliverability Benefit
MODULES                                                                                            38.0.0


   Zonal Deliverability Benefit

   If there are any remaining excess PRA revenues, the Transmission Provider will distribute the

   remaining amounts to Deliverability Benefit Zones.

   First, the Transmission Provider will subtract Final PRMR and ZRCs associated with HUCs and

   ZDC Hedges to derive an adjusted Final PRMR (Adjusted Final PRMR) and ZRC (Adjusted

   ZRC). Second, the Transmission Provider shall create a DBZ for each group of LRZs that have

   equal ACPs which result from the same auction constraint. Third, the Transmission Provider, for

   each DBZ, will subtract the sum of Adjusted Final PRMR for each LRZ within the DBZ from

   the sum of Adjusted ZRCs for each LRZ within the DBZ. A DBZ will be considered a net

   importing DBZ if the sum of the Adjusted Final PRMR is greater than the sum of Adjusted

   ZRCs. A DBZ will be considered a net exporting DBZ if the sum of the Adjusted Final PRMR is

   less than the sum of Adjusted ZRCs. A net exporting DBZ shall not receive any ZDB credit. A

   net importing DBZ shall receive a ZDB credit allocation based upon a weighted average

   approach. Fourth, the Transmission Provider will calculate the weighted average ACP of all net

   exporting DBZs (Weighted Average Export ACP) to determine a financial value of export

   capacity within the Transmission Provider region per the formula below:




   Where j = Each net exporting DBZ

   Fifth, the Transmission Provider will calculate the ZDB credit allocation, in dollars, for each net

   importing DBZ:




                                                                              Effective On: April 6, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.7.7(c)
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Zonal Deliverability Benefit
MODULES                                                                                             38.0.0


   Where k = Each net importing DBZ

   Finally, the Transmission Provider will distribute the ZDB credit in each DBZk by dividing the

   ZDB credit by the sum of Adjusted Final PRMR of the LRZs within each DBZk. This

   distribution is a credit to the initial ACP calculated for each LRZ from the PRA.

   The Transmission Provider will receive FRAP and RBDC Opt Out related revenue from Zonal

   Deliverability Charges. The Transmission Provider will allocate such revenue to the DBZ where

   the Final PRMR associated with the ZDC is physically located. This revenue will be allocated on

   a pro rata basis by Adjusted Final PRMR to all LSEs within the DBZ to develop an ACP credit

   adjustment.

   The Transmission Provider will also receive FRAP and RBDC Opt Out related revenues derived

   from ZRCs that would have received payments greater than the charges to the associated FRAP

   or RBDC Opt Out PRMR. The Transmission Provider will allocate such revenue to the DBZ

   where the ZRC associated with the FRAP or RBDC Opt Out is represented. This revenue will be

   allocated on a pro rata basis by Adjusted Final PRMR to all LSEs within the DBZ to develop an

   ACP credit adjustment. After calculating the ZDB rate(s), if there exists any remaining excess

   revenue (i.e. surplus), the surplus will be allocated back to the Deliverability Benefiting Zone(s)

   on a Final PRMR pro-rata basis.




                                                                              Effective On: April 6, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.7.7(d)
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Local Clearing Requirement Charge
MODULES                                                                                         34.0.0


   Whenever an LRZ has an ACP that exceeds the System ACP because the LCR for that LRZ

   exceeds the sum of Final PRMR for LSEs within that LRZ, payments made to ZRCs in that LRZ

   will exceed the sum of receipts from LSEs within that LRZ plus any receipts from other LRZs

   related to such ZRCs. The revenue shortfall within such LRZ will be recovered from all LSEs

   within that LRZ on a Final PRMR pro-rata basis. Initial PRMR covered by FRAPs and RBDC

   Opt Outs will be included in the pro-rata calculation, and the related amounts charged to the

   LSEs that use FRAPs and RBDC Opt Outs through this Local Clearing Requirement Charge.




                                                                             Effective On: April 6, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.7.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                           Self-Scheduling Option:
MODULES                                                                                         35.0.0


   Self-Scheduling Option:

   LSEs with sufficient ZRCs within an LRZ where the LSE has forecasted Demand will be able to

   avoid the financial impact of that LRZ’s ACP for the Final PRMR by Self-Scheduling such

   ZRCs into the PRA (i.e., by Offering ZRCs into the PRA at a zero price so that the ZRCs will

   clear). For Planning Resources associated with ZRCs represented outside the LRZ where the

   LSE has PRMR, an LSE would also need to use the financial hedges described in Section

   69A.7.7 to avoid the financial effects of potential price differences between LRZs or between an

   LRZ and an ERZ. ZRCs obtained from a ZG Resource may not be used in a Self-Schedule.




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.7.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                          ICAP Deferral Requirements and Charges
MODULES                                                                                       42.0.0


   Installed Capacity (ICAP) Deferral Requirements and Charges

   a.     ICAP Deferral Notice. Market Participants that request ICAP deferral as provided in

          Sections 69A.3.1.a.2, 69A.3.1.b.2, 69A.3.1.c.2, and/or 69A.3.6.2. must provide an ICAP

          Deferral Notice to the Transmission Provider in writing by an officer of the company no

          later than February 15th prior to the Planning Year: (1) the expected ICAP value (in

          megawatts) from such Planning Resource and if the Planning Resource is new, the LBA

          or external BA where it is represented for any Season for which it wants to be eligible to

          offer ZRCs, (2) appropriate information validating that ICAP will be submitted to the

          Transmission Provider by the last business day of the Month prior to the start of any

          Season in which it wants to be eligible.

   b.     ICAP Deferral Credit Requirements. A Market Participant that provides ICAP Deferral

          Notice must satisfy credit requirements by March 1st prior to the Planning Year totaling

          the ICAP value provided in the ICAP Deferral Notice, multiplied by ninety (90) days of

          daily CONE values (i.e., 90/365 times CONE) for the LRZ where the Planning Resource

          is represented. If the Planning Resource is represented in an ERZ connected to a single

          SRRZ, the applicable CONE value will be the greatest CONE value of all LRZs in

          respective SRRZ. For External Resources represented in ERZs which are connected to

          multiple SRRZs, or which are not directly connected to any SRRZs, the applicable

          CONE value will be the greatest CONE value of all LRZs in those connected SRRZs. If

          the Market Participant: (1) submits GVTC results, demonstrates deliverability, and

          demonstrates commercial operation, or (2) registers replacement ZRCs in accordance

          with Section 69A.3.1.h, then the Transmission Provider will adjust the Market




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                         69A.7.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                          ICAP Deferral Requirements and Charges
MODULES                                                                                       42.0.0


          Participant’s credit requirement to account for these changes within ten (10) Business

          Days after ICAP is submitted or replacement ZRCs have been provided to the

          Transmission Provider. In the event ZRCs associated with a Planning Resource for

          which ICAP has been deferred are unconverted in accordance with 69A.7.3, the Market

          Participant may provide notice to the Transmission Provider that it wishes to forfeit the

          deferred ICAP value. Then the Transmission Provider will adjust the Market

          Participant’s ICAP value and credit requirement within ten (10) Business Days.

   c.     ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges.

          i.     A Market Participant that provides ICAP Deferral Notice and that either (1) has

                 not submitted ICAP for such Planning Resources by the last business day of the

                 Month prior to the start of any Season for which it has deferred, or (2) has

                 submitted an ICAP value demonstrating fewer megawatts are available than the

                 ICAP value submitted in the ICAP Deferral Notice, shall be assessed ICAP

                 Deferral Non-Compliance Charges unless it completes ZRC replacement in

                 accordance with Section 69A.3.1.h. Assessment of ICAP Deferral Non-

                 Compliance Charges will commence on the first day of the any Season for which

                 a Market Participant has an ICAP deferral and continue until ICAP is submitted

                 and verified by the Transmission Provider, replacement ZRCs are registered per

                 the BPM for Resource Adequacy, the ICAP value is forfeited, or the end of any

                 deferred Season, whichever is earlier. Market Participants with Planning

                 Resources subject to ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges do not have to

                 meet the applicable performance requirement as described in Sections 69A.3.9




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                        69A.7.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                         ICAP Deferral Requirements and Charges
MODULES                                                                                      42.0.0


                 and 69A.5 for such Resources, until such time that they are no longer subject to

                 these charges.

          ii.    ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges will be calculated as follows: the

                 amount of ICAP that has not been submitted to the Transmission Provider

                 multiplied by the sum of the ACP and the daily CONE value (i.e., 1/365 times

                 CONE). The ACP and the CONE values will be based on the LRZ where the

                 Planning Resource is represented. If the Planning Resource is represented in an

                 ERZ connected to a single SRRZ, the applicable CONE value will be the greatest

                 CONE value of all LRZs in respective SRRZ. For External Resources represented

                 in ERZs which are connected to multiple SRRZs or which are not connected to

                 any SRRZs, the applicable CONE value will be the greatest CONE value of all

                 LRZs in those connected SRRZs.

          iii.   Distribution of ICAP Deferral Non-Compliance Charges: ICAP Deferral Non-

                 Compliance Charge revenues received by the Transmission Provider will be

                 distributed to Market Participants representing LSEs on a pro rata basis, based

                 upon the LSE’s share of Final PRMR minus the Initial PRMR associated with the

                 Capacity Deficiency Charge for the Transmission Provider Region during the

                 applicable Season.




                                                                            Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                            69A.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Calculation of CONE and Net CONE
MODULES                                                                                         35.0.0


   Calculation of CONE and Net CONE

   a.     The CONE value shall initially be the rate proposed by the Transmission Provider in a

          2012 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission filing and approved by the Commission for

          the Planning Year commencing on June 1, 2013. The Transmission Provider and the

          IMM shall consider factors, including, but not limited to: (1) physical factors (such as,

          the type of Generation Resource that could reasonably be constructed to provide Planning

          Resources, costs associated with locating the Generation Resource within the

          Transmission Provider Region, the estimated costs of fuel for the Generation Resource);

          (2) financial factors (such as, the hypothetical debt/equity ratio for the Generation

          Resource, the cost of capital, a reasonable return on equity, applicable taxes, interest,

          insurance); and (3) other costs (such as, costs related to permitting, environmental

          compliance, operating and maintenance expenses). In calculating the CONE, the

          Transmission Provider and the IMM shall not consider the anticipated net revenue from

          the sale of capacity, Energy or Ancillary Services. CONE values will be calculated for

          each LRZ. The Transmission Provider shall arrange for CONE values to be calculated in

          concert with the IMM no later than September 1 beginning on September 1, 2012. The

          recalculated CONE values shall be filed with the Commission annually thereafter.

   b.     The Transmission Provider shall calculate Net CONE values for each LRZ. Net CONE

          represents the difference between CONE values and Inframarginal Rents, for the

          Generation Resource type used in the CONE value calculation (the Reference Resource

          Type) . The following process will be used to estimate Net CONE:




                                                                                Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                           69A.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                               Calculation of CONE and Net CONE
MODULES                                                                                        35.0.0


          To determine Inframarginal Rents, the most recent three Planning Years of historic data

          will be compiled for each Generation Resource of the Reference Resource Type

          operating in the Transmission Provider Region consisting of all revenues for the

          Generation Resource from the Transmission Provider’s Energy and Operating Reserve

          Markets, on a per MW or MWh basis, whichever is applicable, calculated hourly, and

          Production Costs calculated hourly. The greater of the market revenues minus

          Production Costs, or zero, shall be calculated hourly, and summed across all Hours for

          each Planning Year, for each resource of the Reference Resource Type. Inframarginal

          Rents outside of two standard deviations from the sample mean are removed. The

          Generation Resources are then grouped into LRZs based on their location. An average

          Inframarginal Rents is calculated for each LRZ and then scaled using a capacity factor for

          each LRZ. The capacity factor is the ratio of the commitment hours of the Generation

          Resource of the Reference Resource Type that is committed for the maximum number of

          hours in the Planning Year amongst all Generation Resources of the Reference Resource

          Type to the average commitment hours of all Generation Resources of the Reference

          Resource Type that were committed in the LRZ in the Planning Year. This results in

          Inframarginal Rents values for each LRZ for each Planning Year, which will be averaged

          over a three-year period to determine an initial Inframarginal Rents for each LRZ.

          To determine the final Inframarginal Rents values to be used for the upcoming Planning

          Year, the Transmission Provider will apply a scaling factor to the initial Inframarginal

          Rents. The scaling factor will be based on statistical models between: a) LMPs to gas,

          and; b) LMPs to Inframarginal Rents. Readily available settled futures gas prices for the




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                          69A.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Calculation of CONE and Net CONE
MODULES                                                                                       35.0.0


          upcoming Planning Year will be applied to the statistical models to calculate the scaling

          factor.

          Each LRZ’s final Inframarginal Rents are then grouped and averaged into values in the

          First Planning Area and Second Planning Area. The values from the First Planning Area

          and Second Planning Area are then subtracted from the LRZ-specific CONE values to get

          an estimate of Net CONE for each LRZ. For use in the PRA, Net CONE values are sorted

          into values in the First Planning Area and Second Planning Area.

          The Transmission Provider shall arrange for Net CONE values to be calculated no later

          than September 1 prior to the subsequent Planning Year beginning on September 1, 2024.

          The recalculated Net CONE values shall be filed with the Commission annually

          thereafter.




                                                                             Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                            69A.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                      Use of FRAP in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                         39.0.0


   Use of FRAP in the Planning Resource Auction

   An LSE electing to use a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan (FRAP) in the PRA for any Season can

   continue to use its existing resource planning processes to meet all or any portion of its Initial

   PRMR by providing the Transmission Provider with a FRAP, as described below:

   a.     An LSE electing to use a FRAP for any Season must submit a FRAP for each LRZ to the

          Transmission Provider by the 7th Business Day of March prior to a Planning Year in

          order for the LSE to demonstrate that the LSE has designated ZRCs in order to meet all

          or any portion of the LSE’s Initial PRMR for such LRZ. Market Participants submitting

          registrations for new and existing Load Modifying Resources can be included in the

          Module E Capacity Tracking Tool beginning as early as December prior to the Planning

          Year. Load Modifying Resources registrations submitted to the Transmission Provider

          will be evaluated to determine if Load Modifying Resources meet the qualification

          requirements. Market Participants that submit registrations by February 1 prior to the

          Planning Year will be evaluated by the Transmission Provider and will be notified of the

          outcome on or before February 21 that precedes the Planning Year.

          Market Participants that submit registrations between February 2 and February 15 prior to

          the Planning Year will be evaluated by the Transmission Provider and will be notified of

          the outcome at least two Business Days prior to the FRAP deadline. The Transmission

          Provider will make a good faith effort to notify Market Participants that submit

          registrations after February 15 but not later than March 1 of the outcomes of such

          registrations no later than the FRAP deadline. All ZRCs associated with a ZG Resource

          must be used as part of an LSE’s Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan (FRAP) or RBDC Opt




                                                                           Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Use of FRAP in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                       39.0.0


          Out. All ZRCs associated with a ZG Resource that are not used in a FRAP shall have no

          capacity value as set forth in Section 69A.7.3. The FRAP must include the LSE’s

          forecasted Coincident Peak Demand for each LRZ for each Season and also identify the

          ZRCs that the LSE owns, or has contractual rights to, in order to provide Planning

          Resources to meet the FRAP designated portion of its Initial PRMR and also its load ratio

          share of the LCR for each LRZ for each Season. The Transmission Provider will

          evaluate each LSE’s FRAP to determine if it meets the designated portion of the LSE’s

          Initial PRMR and the LSE’s share of LCR and the Transmission Provider will notify the

          LSE via the MECT prior to March 15th before a Planning Year of the extent that the

          portion of an LSE’s Initial PRMR or share of LCR for each LRZ is not covered by a

          submitted FRAP. The LSE will have until the PRA offer window opens to remedy any

          deficiencies in their FRAP for each Season.

   b.     To the extent that the LSE’s ZRCs satisfy the portion of the LSE’s Initial PRMR for the

          applicable Season(s) submitted through a FRAP, (1) the LSE will not have an obligation

          to make ZRC Offers for the ZRCs included in the FRAP into the PRA, or otherwise

          participate in the PRA for such Season; and (2) the LSE will not have an obligation to

          pay the applicable ACP for the LSE’s Initial PRMR within such LRZ that is covered by

          the FRAP. The Transmission Provider will consider all PRMR and ZRCs, including

          PRMR and ZRCs in FRAPs, as part of the Transmission Provider’s reliability assessment

          when conducting the PRA.




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Use of FRAP in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                       39.0.0


   c.     Any portion of an LSE’s Initial PRMR not covered by the FRAP may be purchased

          through the PRA. An LSE will be charged the applicable ACP for any PRMR that is

          procured through the PRA.

   d.     If an LSE owns or controls ZRCs that are not included in the LSE’s FRAP, then such

          LSE may submit ZRC Offers into the PRA for all such excess ZRCs, subject to Module

          D.

   e.     To the extent that an LSE designates ZRCs in a FRAP that are represented in the same

          LRZ as the LSE’s Demand to meet the LSE’s Initial PRMR for such LRZ, then the LSE

          will not be subject to a Zonal Deliverability Charge for such ZRCs.

   f.     An LSE that contains ZRCs from Planning Resources that are not represented in the same

          LRZ where the LSE has Demand may be subject to a Zonal Deliverability Charge, which

          will be calculated as described in Section 69A.7.6(b).




                                                                       Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                        69A.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                           Use of RBDC Opt Out in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                      35.0.0


   Use of RBDC Opt Out in the Planning Resource Auction

   An LSE electing to use the RBDC Opt Out can continue to use its existing resource planning

   processes to meet its Final PRMR by providing the Transmission Provider with an RBDC Opt

   Out, as described below:

          a.     The RBDC Opt Out Lock-In Period will be three consecutive Planning Years for

                 all Seasons. If an LSE fails to submit an RBDC Opt Out then the LSE will be

                 required to participate in the PRA through any combination of the other Tariff-

                 defined options, or pay the Capacity Deficiency Charge, for each Planning Year

                 in which the LSE does not submit an RBDC Opt Out.

          b.     An LSE under state jurisdiction where the State Regulatory Authority has

                 overridden the PRM established by the Transmission Provider is not eligible to

                 select the RBDC Opt Out.

          c.     An LSE selecting the RBDC Opt Out will be required to meet its Final PRMR for

                 the entirety of its load and losses, and its entire share of LCR for each LRZ, for

                 each Season. All ZRCs associated with a ZG Resource must be used as part of an

                 LSE’s Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan (FRAP) or RBDC Opt Out.

          d.     An LSE must provide an initial notification of its intent to elect the RBDC Opt

                 Out no later than January 15th prior to the upcoming Planning Year. An LSE

                 electing the RBDC Opt Out must submit its final plan for each LRZ to the

                 Transmission Provider by the 7th Business Day of March prior to each Planning

                 Year during the RBDC Opt Out Lock-In Period in order for the LSE to

                 demonstrate that the LSE has designated ZRCs in order to meet the LSE’s Final




                                                                         Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                          Use of RBDC Opt Out in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                     35.0.0


                 PRMR, and share of LCR for each LRZ, for each Season. Market Participants

                 using the RBDC Opt Out must submit all registrations for new and existing

                 resources to be used in the RBDC Opt Out through the MECT consistent with the

                 timelines established in the Business Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy.

                 The RBDC Opt Out must include the LSE’s seasonal forecasted Coincident Peak

                 Demand for each LRZ and also identify the ZRCs that the LSE owns, or has

                 contractual rights to, in order to provide Planning Resources to meet its Final

                 PRMR, and also its share of the LCR for each LRZ for each Season. The

                 Transmission Provider will evaluate each LSE’s RBDC Opt Out on an annual

                 basis to determine if it meets the LSE’s Final PRMR and the LSE’s share of LCR

                 requirements for all Seasons. The Transmission Provider will notify the LSE

                 prior to March 15th before the applicable Planning Year whether the submitted

                 RBDC Opt Out meets the LSE’s Final PRMR, and share of LCR for each LRZ,

                 requirement for each Season during the applicable Planning Year. The LSE must

                 remedy any deficiencies in its RBDC Opt Out for each Season before the PRA

                 offer window opens.

          e.     The Transmission Provider will notify the RERRA(s) following the submission of

                 an initial intent to elect the RBDC Opt Out by an LSE. RERRA(s) may elect to

                 notify the Transmission Provider within twenty (20) Business Days whether the

                 LSE’s load subject to the RERRA’s respective jurisdiction is authorized to select

                 the RBDC Opt Out. Upon receipt of such a notification from the RERRA(s) that

                 the LSE is not authorized to elect the RBDC Opt Out for the LSE’s load subject to




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                      69A.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                         Use of RBDC Opt Out in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                    35.0.0


                 the RERRA’s respective jurisdiction, the Transmission Provider will reject the

                 LSE’s RBDC Opt Out for such load. If the Transmission Provider receives no

                 notification from the RERRA(s) within the twenty (20) Business Day period, and

                 an LSE has demonstrated that it has designated ZRCs in order to meet its Final

                 PRMR, and share of LCR for each LRZ, for each Season, then the proposed

                 RBDC Opt Out by the LSE will be deemed accepted by the Transmission

                 Provider.

          f.     To the extent that the LSE’s ZRCs satisfy the LSE’s Final PRMR for the

                 applicable Season(s) submitted through an RBDC Opt Out, (1) the LSE will not

                 have an obligation to make ZRC Offers for the ZRCs included in the RBDC Opt

                 Out into the PRA, or otherwise participate in the PRA for such Season; and (2)

                 the LSE will not have an obligation to pay the applicable ACP for the LSE’s Final

                 PRMR within such LRZ. The Transmission Provider will consider all PRMR and

                 ZRCs, including PRMR and ZRCs in RBDC Opt Outs, as part of the

                 Transmission Provider’s reliability assessment when conducting the PRA.

          g.     If an LSE owns or controls ZRCs that are not included in the LSE’s RBDC Opt

                 Out, then such LSE may submit ZRC Offers into the PRA for all such excess

                 ZRCs, subject to Module D. Such ZRC Offers may not include ZRCs associated

                 with a ZG Resource.

          h.     To the extent that an LSE designates ZRCs in an RBDC Opt Out that are

                 represented in the same LRZ as the LSE’s Demand to meet the LSE’s Final

                 PRMR for such LRZ, then the LSE will not be subject to a Zonal Deliverability




                                                                       Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                          Use of RBDC Opt Out in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                     35.0.0


                 Charge for such ZRCs.

          i.     An LSE that designates ZRCs from Planning Resources that are not represented in

                 the same LRZ where the LSE has Demand may be subject to a Zonal

                 Deliverability Charge, which will be calculated as described in Section

                 69A.7.6(b).

          j.     LSEs that submit an RBDC Opt Out may not use any of the other options to

                 satisfy their Final PRMR including: (i) submitting a Fixed Resource Adequacy

                 Plan; (ii) Self-Scheduling ZRCs; (iii) purchasing ZRCs through the Planning

                 Resource Auction process, and/or (iv) paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge to

                 meet all or a portion of their Initial PRMR.

          k.     LSEs that elect the RBDC Opt Out that do not meet their Final PRMR shall pay

                 the RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge, which is 2.748 times applicable LRZ’s

                 CONE multiplied by the difference in ZRCs between the LSEs Final PRMR and

                 the amount of ZRCs submitted as the LSEs RBDC Opt Out for each Season in

                 which the LSE fails to meet its Final PRMR.

          l.     RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge revenues will be distributed to Market

                 Participants representing LSEs on a pro rata basis, based upon their respective

                 LSE's share of Final PRMR for the Transmission Provider Region minus the Final

                 PRMR associated with the RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge. If the LRZ where

                 LSEs incurred RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charges failed to meet its Local

                 Clearing Requirement ("LCR"), then RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge revenues

                 will be distributed to Market Participants representing LSEs on a pro rata basis,




                                                                        Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                      69A.9.1
FERC Electric Tariff                         Use of RBDC Opt Out in the Planning Resource Auction
MODULES                                                                                    35.0.0


                 based upon their respective LSE's share of Final PRMR minus the Final PRMR

                 associated with the RBDC Opt Out Deficiency Charge in such LRZ.

          m.     The Transmission Provider will determine the RBDC Opt Out Adder that will be

                 applicable for the upcoming Planning Year every year on or before December 15.

                 The RBDC Adder applicable during the first Planning Year in which an LSE

                 elects to use the RBDC Opt Out will apply for such LSE’s entire RBDC Opt Out

                 Lock-In Period.

          n.     The Transmission Provider will determine the RBDC Opt Out Adder based on a

                 Seasonal average of the RBDC based PRA clearing for the prior three Planning

                 Years. If the prior year RBDC based PRA clearing is not available, simulated

                 RBDC based PRA clearing will be used to determine the RBDC Opt Out Adder.




                                                                      Effective On: October 18, 2026
MISO                                                                                             69A.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                                         Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                           34.0.0


   Capacity Deficiency Charge

   a.     The Transmission Provider will impose a Capacity Deficiency Charge on an LSE that has

   provided notification prior to the Planning Resource Auction that they will meet their Initial

   PRMR in part or in whole by removing Initial PRMR from the Transmission Provider’s capacity

   construct for one or more Seasons by paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge. The Capacity

   Deficiency Charge will be calculated as follows: The CONE value for the LRZ(s) where the

   LSE has provided notice it will be meeting its Initial PRMR by paying the Capacity Deficiency

   Charge for each Season of the Planning Year will be multiplied by 2.748 times the Initial PRMR

   volume indicated by the LSE. The Capacity Deficiency Charge will be assessed to Market

   Participants representing their respective LSE paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge on the first

   Business Day after the results of the Planning Resource Auction have been published.

   b.     Distribution of Capacity Deficiency Charge Revenues: A Market Participant

   representing an LSE that provided notice it will be meeting all or part of its Initial PRMR by

   paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge will not be distributed any Capacity Deficiency Charge

   revenues for that LSE’s Initial PRMR that was met by paying the Capacity Deficiency Charge.

   Capacity Deficiency Charge revenues received by the Transmission Provider will be distributed

   to Market Participants representing LSEs on a pro rata basis, based upon their respective LSE's

   share of Initial PRMR for the Transmission Provider Region minus the Initial PRMR associated

   with the Capacity Deficiency Charge. If the LRZ where LSEs incurred Capacity Deficiency

   Charges failed to meet its Local Clearing Requirement ("LCR"), then Capacity Deficiency

   Charge revenues will be distributed to Market Participants representing LSEs on a pro rata basis,




                                                                              Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                                                                         69A.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                                     Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                       34.0.0


   based upon their respective LSE's share of Initial PRMR minus the Initial PRMR associated with

   the Capacity Deficiency Charge in such LRZ.




                                                                           Effective On: June 3, 2024
MISO                                MODULE E-2
FERC Electric Tariff        RESOURCE ADEQUACY
MODULES                                  30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             69A.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                        Introduction
MODULES                                                                                           31.0.0


   A.     The Resource Adequacy Requirements (RAR) described in Sections 68A through 69A.10

          of the Tariff (Module E-1) establish Seasonal compliance obligations which require the

          Transmission Provider and all LSEs to comply with a series of requirements at various

          times during a Planning Year. Sections 69A.11 through 69A.11.16 set forth the

          requirements for integrating a New LSE into the Transmission Provider Region at the

          start of any Season, other than June 1st, the start of a new Planning Year (Mid-Planning

          Year Integration). A Transitional Planning Resource Auction (TPRA) is a Planning

          Resource auction conducted by the Transmission Provider to determine the Transitional

          ACP and the Cleared ZRC Offers for a Local Resource Zone (LRZ) for the remainder of

          a transitional Planning Year when a Mid-Planning Year Integration occurs. Sections

          69A.11 through 69A.11.16 outline the RAR compliance obligations of a New LSE and

          the Transmission Provider’s role in conducting a TPRA during a transitional period until

          the New LSE’s assets can be included in the full annual RAR process in accordance with

          Module E-1. Section 69A.11.17 sets forth the requirements a New LSE must meet to

          integrate new Load into the Transmission Provider Region pursuant to a Mid-Planning

          Year Integration without the need for the Transmission Provider to conduct a TPRA, until

          the New LSE’s assets can be included in the full annual RAR process in accordance with

          Module E-1.

   B.     The Transmission Provider may conduct an assessment pursuant to Section 69A.11.1 and

          the Business Practices Manual for Resource Adequacy to determine whether an

          integration requires the establishment of a new LRZ based on an inquiry of a potential

          New LSE to integrate new Load into the Transmission Provider Region pursuant to a




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                                 69A.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                            Introduction
MODULES                                                                                               31.0.0


          Mid-Planning Year Integration. Following completion of the assessment, and no fewer

          than one hundred eighty (180) Calendar Days prior to the potential New LSE’s desired

          integration date, the Transmission Provider and the potential New LSE shall finalize the

          integration date. This finalized integration date shall serve as the basis for initiating the

          activities required to meet the obligations and timelines set forth in this Module E-2.

          If the Transmission Provider determines the requested Mid-Planning Year Integration

          requires the creation of a new LRZ, then the Transmission Provider shall conduct a

          TPRA pursuant to the provisions set forth in Sections 69A.11.1 through 69A.11.16. If

          the Transmission Provider determines the requested Mid-Planning Year Integration does

          not require the establishment of a new LRZ, then the New LSE shall demonstrate that it

          meets its RAR as set forth in Section 69A.11.17 to integrate new Load into the

          Transmission Provider Region pursuant to a Mid-Planning Year Integration without the

          need for a TPRA.

   C.    All New LSEs shall be subject to the requirements set forth in Section 69A.5 of Module

         E-1. New LSEs may not engage in the ICAP Deferral processes.




                                                                          Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.11.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                             Establishment of Local Resource Zones
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will assess one or more of the following factors to determine whether

   integration of a New LSE’s Load into Transmission Provider Region requires the establishment

   and boundaries of a new LRZ: (1) the electrical boundaries of the New LSE and those of

   existing LBAs; (2) the geographical boundaries of existing LRZs; (3) state boundaries; (4) the

   relative strength of transmission interconnections between the New LSE and existing LBAs; (5)

   the results of LOLE studies; (6) the relative size of New LSE compared to existing LRZs; and

   (7) natural geographic boundaries such as lakes and rivers.

   The Transmission Provider will develop LRZs based upon a New LSE’s Load and its Planning

   Resources to reflect the need for an adequate amount of Planning Resources to be located in the

   appropriate locations within the Transmission Provider Region to reliably meet Demand and

   LOLE requirements, using the criteria in Section 68A.3. The Transmission Provider will file the

   LRZs with the Commission once they have been developed.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                      69A.11.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Establishment of SRRZs
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to conducting a Transitional Planning Resource Auction

   (TPRA) for a New LSE, the Transmission Provider will establish and publish Sub Regional

   Resource Zone(s) (SRRZs) subject to applicable seams agreements, coordination agreements, or

   transmission service agreements.




                                                                          Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                         69A.11.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Establishment of CIL and CEL Limits
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to conducting a TPRA for a New LSE, the Transmission

   Provider will determine the Capacity Import Limits (CIL) and Capacity Export Limits (CEL) for

   each of the LRZs for each Season in the transitional Planning Year, using the criteria in Section

   68A.4. The CIL and CEL values will be further adjusted to reflect the results of the PRA for the

   same Season(s).




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                      69A.11.2.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Establishment of SRECs and SRICs
MODULES                                                                                        32.0.0


   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to conducting a TPRA for a New LSE, the Transmission

   Provider will establish and publish, subject to applicable seams agreements, coordination

   agreements, or transmission service agreements, the Sub Regional Import Constraint (SRIC) and

   Sub Regional Export Constraint (SREC) for applicable SRRZ(s) for each Season in the

   transitional Planning Year. The SRIC and SREC values will be further adjusted to reflect the

   results of the PRA for the same Season(s).




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.11.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                     Establishment of Local Reliability Requirement
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0




   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to conducting a TPRA for a New LSE, the Transmission

   Provider will establish a Local Reliability Requirement (LRR) for each LRZ to determine the

   quantity of Unforced Capacity needed such that the LRZ would achieve an LOLE of 0.1 day per

   year, without consideration of the benefit of the LRZ’s CIL, using the criteria in Section 68A.5.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                       69A.11.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Establishment of Local Clearing Requirement
MODULES                                                                                       32.0.0


   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to conducting a TPRA for a New LSE, the Transmission

   Provider will establish the Local Clearing Requirement (LCR) for each LRZ for each Season as

   established in Section 68A.6. The LCR for an LRZ applies to a New LSE.




                                                                    Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.11.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Establishing Planning Reserve Margins
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   The Planning Reserve Margin (PRM) for a New LSE, whose assets were not included in the

   Transmission Provider’s annual process to set PRM, shall be the applicable effective PRM

   established by the Transmission Provider for each Season of the Planning Year as a result of the

   most recent PRA, unless another PRM is required by an applicable RERRA having jurisdiction

   over a New LSE. For all subsequent Planning Years, a New LSE’s PRM shall be determined as

   described in Section 68A.2. The effective PRM for each Season shall be the applicable Final

   PRMR established in the PRA divided by the sum of Coincident Peak Demand, including

   transmission losses per the formula below:




   Where a = Transmission Provider Region or sub-region




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                          69A.11.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Calculation of Transmission System Losses
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to conducting a TPRA for a New LSE, the Transmission

   Provider shall calculate the transmission loss percentages for each Season in the transitional

   Planning Year for a New LSE’s LBA Area using the process described in Section 68A.8. If the

   Transmission Provider does not have access to all of the data required to perform the

   transmission losses calculation as described in Section 68A.8, then the Transmission Provider

   will calculate the transmission losses for the new LBA Area using available data.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.11.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Load Serving Entity Responsibilities
MODULES                                                                                         31.0.0


   At least sixty (60) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission Provider conducts a

   TPRA for a New LSE, a New LSE shall provide to the Transmission Provider the most recent

   Coincident Peak Demand and LRZ Coincident Peak Demand forecasts within each LBA Area in

   the Transmission Provider Region available for each Season in the transitional Planning Year.

   Such Coincident Peak Demand forecasts will be subject to review by the Transmission Provider,

   as described in Section 69A.1.1. A New LSE shall also provide the non-coincident peak

   Demand and net Energy for Load within each LBA Area, for each Season to the Transmission

   Provider, monthly for two years and seasonal for eight years, at least sixty (60) Calendar Days

   prior to the date that the Transmission Provider conducts a TPRA for a New LSE. Consistent

   with Section 69A.1, EDCs shall provide the Transmission Provider with either each retail

   customer’s peak load contribution or each LSE’s historical share of the Coincident Peak Demand

   at least sixty (60) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission Provider conducts a

   TPRA for a New LSE.




                                                                        Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                           69A.11.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Qualification of Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   At least thirty (30) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission Provider conducts a

   TPRA for a New LSE, Market Participants shall register and provide information to the

   Transmission Provider consistent with Section 69A.3 and 69A.4 to qualify Planning Resources

   that a New LSE may use to meet its Final PRMR. The Transmission Provider shall use the

   Planning Resource data provided by Market Participants to determine Seasonal Accredited

   Capacity values for each Planning Resource consistent with Section 69A.4.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                         69A.11.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                    Transitional Planning Resource Auction (TPRA)
MODULES                                                                                          31.0.0


   A.     A New LSE integrating its assets with an effective date on June 1st will be able to

          participate in the upcoming Planning Resource Auction (PRA), as specified in the

          Business Practice Manuals for Resource Adequacy.

   B.     A New LSE that does not integrate its assets on June 1st will not be able to participate in

          the PRA until the following year, however such New LSE will be able to participate in a

          TPRA involving one or more New LSEs to acquire ZRCs, as specified in the Business

          Practice Manuals for Resource Adequacy. Market Participants may offer ZRCs into a

          TPRA only if such ZRCs are not otherwise committed during the relevant portion of the

          Planning Year covered by a TPRA. Any Market Participant may offer ZRCs into a

          TPRA, however, only a New LSE may procure ZRCs through a TPRA. The

          Transmission Provider will conduct a TPRA and publish the results at least thirty (30)

          Calendar Days prior to the date that a New LSE integrates into the Transmission Provider

          Region, using the relevant auction procedures specified in Section 69A.7, but without any

          application of the RBDC for the New LSE. Instead, a New LSE will have its Final

          PRMR set as described in Section 69A.11.16.

   C.     Any Load that is transferred in a retail choice state will be assessed a capacity

          requirement payment: (1) based on the TPRA’s Transitional ACP if the retail load is

          served by a New LSE that participated in a TPRA, or (2) based on the PRA’s ACP if the

          retail load is served by an existing LSE or a New LSE that participated in the PRA.




                                                                         Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                     69A.11.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Market Monitoring
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   New LSEs shall be subject to the provisions of Module D with regard to physical or economic

   withholding of Planning Resources from a TPRA. All Market Participants, including but not

   limited to, suppliers to New LSEs, shall be subject to Module D. The Transmission Provider

   will report to the Independent Market Monitor any known attempt by New LSEs to exercise

   market power in a TPRA.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      69A.11.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    ZDC Charges and ZDC Hedges
MODULES                                                                                      34.0.0


   A New LSE will be subject to the Zonal Deliverability Charge consistent with Section

   69A.7.6(b) if the New LSE submits a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan to meet all or a portion of

   its Final PRMR. A New LSE will be able to receive excess TPRA revenue if a New LSE

   qualifies for a Historic Unit Consideration (HUC) consistent with Section 69A.7.7(a), or ZDC

   Hedge, consistent with Section 69A.7.7(b). A New LSE will be entitled to a Zonal

   Deliverability Benefit in accordance with Section 69A.7.7(c). New LSEs must note qualification

   for HUCs and submit information supporting HUC eligibility to the Transmission Provider at

   least sixty (60) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission Provider conducts a TPRA

   for a New LSE. Market Participants must submit information submitting ZDC Hedges to the

   Transmission Provider at least sixty (60) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission

   Provider conducts a TPRA for a New LSE. A New LSE will be allocated, as appropriate Local

   Clearing Requirement Charges in accordance with Section 69A.7.7(d). The Tariff provisions in

   Module E-1 apply to existing LSEs. New LSEs are only subject to the provisions of Module E-

   2, except to the extent that Module E-2 Tariff provisions incorporate Module E-1 requirements

   by reference.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                        69A.11.12
FERC Electric Tariff                                           Distribution of Excess Auction Revenue
MODULES                                                                                         33.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will distribute any excess TPRA revenues: first, to Historic Unit

   Considerations as described in Section 69A.7.7(a) and ZDC Hedges as described in Section

   69A.7.7(b). Any remaining amounts will be distributed in accordance with the Zonal

   Deliverability Benefit provisions of Section 69A.7.7(c).

   The New LSE will only receive excess TPRA revenue if the Transitional ACP paid by the New

   LSE is higher than the Transitional ACP received for Planning Resources. If there are not

   sufficient excess revenues to fully fund all Historic Unit Considerations and ZDC Hedges, the

   revenues will be allocated on a pro rata basis to all HUCs and ZDC Hedges to the extent allowed

   by Local Clearing Requirements.




                                                                      Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.11.13
FERC Electric Tariff                                                    Fixed Resource Adequacy Plans
MODULES                                                                                        31.0.0


          At least fifteen (15) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission Provider

   conducts a TPRA, a New LSE may submit a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan (FRAP) to the

   Transmission Provider that demonstrates adequate Planning Resources are deliverable in order to

   satisfy all or a portion of a New LSE’s Final PRMR for each Season in the transitional Planning

   Year. A New LSE may designate ZRCs in its FRAP to the extent that the New LSE possesses

   contractual rights to such ZRCs and such ZRCs are not otherwise designated. The FRAP must

   include a New LSE’s Coincident Peak Demand for each LRZ for each Season of the transitional

   Planning Year and also designate ZRCs that the New LSE owns, or has contractual right to, in

   order to provide Planning Resources to meet the FRAP designated portion of its Final PRMR

   and also its load ratio share of the applicable LCR.

          ZRCs for any portion of a New LSE’s Final PRMR that are not covered by a FRAP may

   be purchased through the TPRA. A New LSE will be charged the applicable Transitional ACP

   for any ZRCs that are procured through the TPRA. A New LSE that is capacity deficient will be

   assessed a Capacity Deficiency Charge in accordance with Section 69A.11.15. To the extent that

   a New LSE designates ZRCs in a FRAP that are physically located in the same LRZ as the New

   LSE’s Load (to meet the New LSE’s Final PRMR for each Season for such LRZ), then the New

   LSE will not be subject to a Zonal Deliverability Charge for such ZRCs. A New LSE that

   utilizes ZRCs from Planning Resources that are not physically located in the same LRZ where

   the New LSE has Load may be subject to a Zonal Deliverability Charge, as described in Section

   69A.7.6.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.11.14
FERC Electric Tariff                                              Self-Scheduling Planning Resources
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   A New LSE that integrates into the Transmission Provider Region may demonstrate compliance

   with its Final PRMR for each Season by Self-Scheduling ZRCs prior to the close of the offer

   window of a TPRA.




                                                                     Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                      69A.11.15
FERC Electric Tariff                                        CONE and the Capacity Deficiency Charge
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will calculate and file with the Commission the applicable CONE

   values for new LRZs at least sixty (60) Calendar Days prior to the date that the Transmission

   Provider conducts a TPRA for a New LSE, consistent with the provisions in Section 69A.8. One

   (1) Business Day after the completion of the TPRA, the Transmission Provider shall impose a

   Capacity Deficiency Charge on a New LSE that has not demonstrated, at the close of the offer

   window of a TPRA, to the Transmission Provider that such New LSE has arranged sufficient

   Zonal Resource Credits to meet its Final PRMR for each Season, consistent with Section

   69A.10. The Transmission Provider will impose any Capacity Deficiency Charges on a pro rata

   basis, based upon the days remaining in the transitional Planning Year.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                     69A.11.16
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Meeting Planning Reserve Margin Requirements
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0


   The Final PRMR for each Season for New LSEs shall be calculated based on effective PRM set

   from the PRA for the same Season(s) it plans to integrate. Prior to the completion of a TPRA,

   New LSEs shall meet their Final PRMR for each Season for each LRZ where they serve Load

   by: (1) submitting a Fixed Resource Adequacy Plan; (2) Self-Scheduling ZRCs; (3) purchasing

   ZRCs through a TPRA; and/or (4) paying a Capacity Deficiency Charge. Because a TPRA is a

   substitute auction that is only available for New LSEs that are unable to meet the timing

   requirements necessary to participate in the PRA, a New LSE may not participate in both a PRA

   and a TPRA for the same Planning Year.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.11.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                Transitional Planning Resource Auction Exemption
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0

   A New LSE may integrate Load into the Transmission Provider Region pursuant to a Mid-

   Planning Year Integration without the need for a TPRA if such New LSE satisfies the

   requirements set forth in this Section 69A.11.17 below.

   A.     At least one hundred and fifty (150) Calendar Days prior to the date the New LSE

          integrates into the Transmission Provider Region, the New LSE shall provide all

          forecasted Demand data consistent with Section 69A.11.7. Consistent with Section

          69A.1, EDCs shall provide the Transmission Provider with either each retail customer’s

          peak load contribution or each LSE’s historical share of the Coincident Peak Demand.

          The Transmission Provider will determine transmission losses consistent with Section

          69A.11.6.

   B.     At least one hundred and twenty (120) Calendar Days prior to the date the New LSE

          integrates into the Transmission Provider Region, the New LSE shall register and provide

          information to the Transmission Provider consistent with Sections 69A.3 and 69A.4 to

          qualify Planning Resources that the New LSE may use to meet its Final PRMR. The

          Transmission Provider shall use the Planning Resource data provided by the New LSE to

          determine Seasonal Accredited Capacity values for each Planning Resource consistent

          with Section 69A.4.

   C.     A New LSE seeking to integrate Load into the Transmission Provider Region pursuant to

          a Mid-Planning Year Integration must satisfy its RAR based on effective PRM, by LRZ,

          set from the PRA for the same Season(s) it plans to integrate, unless another PRM is

          required by an applicable RERRA having jurisdiction over a New LSE. The effective

          PRM for each Season and LRZ shall be Final PRMR established in the PRA divided by




                                                                      Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.11.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                Transitional Planning Resource Auction Exemption
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0

          the sum of Coincident Peak Demand, including transmission losses for the LRZ into

          which the New LSE is integrating per the formula below:




          Where z = Each LRZ

   D.     The Final PRMR for each Season for New LSEs shall be calculated based on effective

          PRM set from the PRA for the same Season(s) it plans to integrate. The Transmission

          Provider will calculate the Final PRMR for each Season for the New LSE within any

          LRZ by multiplying the New LSE’s forecasted Coincident Peak Demand for each

          Season, including transmission losses, by (1 + effective PRM).

   E.     A New LSE will be required to meet its Final PRMR for the entirety of its Load and

          losses, and its entire share of LCR for each LRZ into which it integrates, for each Season.

          If the PRA cleared resources exceeding the LCR for any LRZ in which it integrates, the

          share of LCR requirement in those LRZs will be reduced by the amount of excess in each

          Season. A New LSE may satisfy its RAR by procuring sufficient ZRCs to fully satisfy

          its Final PRMR and LCR share for each Season until the subsequent Planning Year by

          either: (i) having its own newly integrated resources accredited by Transmission

          Provider, or (ii) entering into ZRC transactions with existing Market Participants to

          procure Uncleared ZRCs sufficient to fully satisfy its Final PRMR and LCR share. If a

          New LSE demonstrates that it has sufficient accredited resources to meet its RAR or has

          procured sufficient ZRCs to fully satisfy its Final PRMR, then the New LSE will be

          deemed to have satisfied its RAR for the duration of the transitional Planning Year.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                       69A.11.17
FERC Electric Tariff                                Transitional Planning Resource Auction Exemption
MODULES                                                                                       31.0.0

          The Transmission Provider will utilize the same LCR, CIL, CEL, SRIC, and SREC

          values established for the relevant PRA and will further adjust those values as needed to

          reflect the results of such PRA for the purposes of assessing RAR.

   F.     At least sixty (60) Calendar Days prior to the date the New LSE integrates into the

          Transmission Provider Region, the New LSE must provide evidence of all procured

          ZRCs to the Transmission Provider. The Transmission Provider shall inform a New LSE

          whether it has met its RAR. In the event a New LSE fails to meet its RAR, the

          Transmission Provider shall impose a Capacity Deficiency Charge no later than (30) days

          prior to the proposed integration date, for any portion of the New LSE’s Final PRMR and

          its share of LCR which has not been satisfied through procurement of ZRCs, consistent

          with Section 69A.10.

          The Transmission Provider will designate any ZRCs used to satisfy the New LSE’s Final

          PRMR as no longer available for purposes of capacity replacement. Such ZRCs will also

          not be eligible to receive any payment of ACP or Transitional ACP.




                                                                       Effective On: September 1, 2026
MISO                                                                                  MODULE F
FERC Electric Tariff                                                      COORDINATION SERVICES
MODULES                                                                                    30.0.0


          The Transmission Provider shall provide the following Coordination Services:

   Reliability Coordination Service, and Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management

   Service. These services shall be provided to entities whose facilities are not included in the

   Transmission System in accordance with this Module F and other applicable terms and

   conditions of this Tariff.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      I
FERC Electric Tariff                                     RELIABILITY COORDINATION SERVICE
MODULES                                                                              30.0.0


   Preamble

          The Transmission Provider provides reliability coordination services for the Balancing

   Authorities and Transmission Operators that are Transmission Owners in accordance with the

   ISO Agreement, the Balancing Authority Agreement and other applicable tariffs. Pursuant to

   this Part I of Module F, the Transmission Provider shall provide comparable Reliability

   Coordination Service to entities that are not Transmission Owners on the terms and conditions

   set forth below.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                         71
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                                 Eligibility
MODULES                                                                                                  30.0.0


   To be eligible for Reliability Coordination Service, a Reliability Coordination Customer must be

   an operating entity that is a NERC Registered Balancing Authority, a NERC Registered

   Transmission Operator, or an owner of transmission facilities that are part of the Bulk Electric

   System as determined under NERC procedures. An entity is not eligible for Reliability

   Coordination Service if, during the time service is provided under this Part I, it is a signatory to

   the ISO Agreement. The Transmission Provider reserves the right to deny service under this Part

   I if the transmission facilities of the applicant are more appropriately located in a different

   Reliability Coordinator Area. As a condition to obtaining Reliability Coordination Service, the

   Reliability Coordination Customer shall: (i) execute an applicable Service Agreement, as set

   forth in Section 74 and Attachment KK-1 to this Tariff, and (ii) provide to the Transmission

   Provider the information required under this Part.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                           72
FERC Electric Tariff   Nature of Reliability Coordination Service
MODULES                                                    30.0.0




                               Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     72.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                 30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will perform Reliability Coordination Service while maintaining the

   reliability of the Combined Reliability Systems in accordance with standards established by

   NERC and the relevant Regional Entity, and Good Utility Practice. The Transmission Provider

   shall continuously maintain its status as Reliability Coordinator and shall act as the Reliability

   Coordinator of the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities throughout the

   term of the Service Agreement executed pursuant to Section 74 and Attachment KK-1 of this

   Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  72.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall have the same right to receive non-discriminatory

   reliability coordination services as those customers receiving reliability coordination services

   pursuant to this Tariff and the ISO Agreement.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   72.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Service provided under this Part shall conform to the requirements

   of the then-current MISO Reliability Plan on file with NERC, including the duty to comply with

   the NERC Reliability Coordinator Standards of Conduct, and the obligation of the Reliability

   Coordinator to act in the interests of the Interconnection, as set forth in Section 72.18 of this

   Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             72.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   To the extent required by NERC or Regional Entity standards, the Transmission Provider will

   enter into communication and coordination agreements with other Reliability Coordinators that

   border the Combined Reliability Systems.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   72.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   In the event that NERC or a Regional Entity conducts an audit of the Transmission Provider’s

   reliability coordination operations or facilities during the term of a Service Agreement executed

   pursuant to Section 74 and Attachment KK-1 of this Tariff, the Transmission Provider will notify

   affected Reliability Coordination Customers of the audit and provide them a copy of the audit

   report when publicly available, and will implement without undue delay all reasonable

   mitigation or remedial measures required to address deficiencies, if any, identified by such

   reliability or similar audit.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 72.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Reliability Coordination Service shall consist of the specific tasks and functions required of

   Reliability Coordinators by the NERC Reliability Standards, as they may be amended from time

   to time, including, but not limited to, the following tasks:




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              72.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Continuously monitor the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities to ensure

   operational reliability of the Combined Reliability Systems;




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               72.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Provide on-line network modeling using state estimation and real-time contingency analysis in

   the operating time frame;




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            72.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   Provide operations engineering services, such as analyses of the Combined Reliability Systems’

   adequacy and security for day-ahead operations, conducting voltage collapse studies when

   requested, and support for Operating Guides as needed;




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             72.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Monitor and advise the Reliability Coordination Customer of voltage support and supplies of

   reactive power;




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         72.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   Monitor and assess abnormal Reliability Coordination Customer ACE deviations and system

   frequency deviations;




                                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            72.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   Use TLR procedures to relieve actual or potential operating security limit violations;




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                       72.3.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                    30.0.0


   Support power system restoration activities;




                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         72.3.8
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   Support transmission map maintenance for the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission

   Facilities; and




                                                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         72.3.9
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   Monitor the Reliability Coordination Customer’s compliance requirements with applicable

   NERC and Regional Entity standards and support such compliance with data as required.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                      72.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   As the Reliability Coordinator for the Reliability Coordination Customer, the Transmission

   Provider shall have the authority to monitor and direct the Reliability Coordination Customer’s

   actions with respect to the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities as

   provided in this Section 72, in order to preserve the integrity and reliability of the Bulk Electric

   System.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            72.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Reliability Coordination Customer may also monitor the

   Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  72.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall monitor on a continuous basis and direct actions with respect to

   the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities, so as to ensure that operating

   parameters are maintained in accord with NERC and Regional Entity standards.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                72.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall periodically perform load-flow and stability studies of the

   Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities to identify and address reliability

   problems.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 72.8
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall be responsible for the exchange of operating information related

   to the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities with adjoining Reliability

   Coordinators and other operating entities within the Combined Reliability Systems that require

   Reliability Coordination Customer operational data for reliability-related purposes or for

   calculation of ATC and its components.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         72.8.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                      30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will submit data for the Combined Reliability Systems via the

   Interregional Security Network.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               72.8.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will participate in conference calls with other Reliability

   Coordinators (including NERC Hotline discussions), notify other Reliability Coordinators of

   potential problems in the Combined Reliability Systems, and provide study results to other

   Reliability Coordinators as necessary. The Transmission Provider shall notify the Reliability

   Coordination Customer of potential problems in the Combined Reliability Systems or

   neighboring systems that will have or may have a reliability impact on the Reliability

   Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             72.9
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall develop, for approval by the NERC Operating Committee, a

   regional reliability plan and procedures for responding to Emergencies that include the

   Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   72.10
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   For the purposes of mitigating an IROL or SOL violation so as to return the Combined

   Reliability Systems to a reliable state, the Transmission Provider shall have authority to direct

   the Reliability Coordination Customer to:




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                72.10.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   Redispatch generating facilities interconnected to the Combined Reliability Systems to the same

   extent that the Reliability Coordination Customer is entitled to redispatch such facilities under its

   transmission tariff and other applicable agreements;




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           72.10.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Reconfigure the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities, including requiring

   changes to the transmission maintenance and outage schedules of the Reliability Coordination

   Customer;




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                             72.10.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                           30.0.0


   Modify interchange;




                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           72.10.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   Reduce load to mitigate a critical condition, up to and including shedding of firm load;




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               72.10.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   Direct actions to be taken by transmission operators, balancing authorities, generator operators,

   transmission service providers, load-serving entities, and purchasing-selling entities within the

   Combined Reliability Systems to preserve the integrity and reliability of the Combined

   Reliability Systems, which shall be taken without delay, but within no longer than 30 minutes;

   and




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              72.10.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Initiate the control action or emergency procedure to relieve a potential or actual IROL violation

   without delay, but within no longer than 30 minutes. The Transmission Provider shall be able to

   utilize all resources, including load shedding, to address an IROL violation.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   72.11
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall retain the authority to receive, confirm, and

   implement interchange and other Transmission Service schedules, subject to the Transmission

   Provider’s authority as set forth in Section 72.10.3 of this Tariff. The Reliability Coordination

   Customer shall not have authority to institute a TLR or EEA, but may request that the

   Transmission Provider take such action.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               72.11.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer will retain authority and responsibility to address

   emergency situations and avoid violations that involve the Reliability Coordination Customer

   Transmission Facilities or its balancing authority area, including situations where TLR

   procedures are inapplicable or the Transmission Provider has not been able to timely address an

   emergency condition. The Reliability Coordination Customer’s authority in this regard will

   include those actions identified in Section 72.10.1 through Section 72.10.4 of this Tariff, and will

   be limited to taking actions that involve generating and transmission facilities owned by the

   Reliability Coordination Customer or generating and transmission facilities that fall within the

   Reliability Coordination Customer’s authority, including the dispatch of Network Resources

   under tariffs or other applicable agreements.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                72.12
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   To ensure that the Transmission Provider has the ability to direct the actions described in Section

   72.10 of this Tariff, the Reliability Coordination Customer and the Transmission Provider will

   develop detailed Operating Guides for all existing known Flowgates and any future identified

   Flowgates that specify the division of reliability-related functions and the procedures for

   coordinating these functions.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    72.13
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                 30.0.0


   Actions directed by the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 72.10 of this Tariff shall be

   consistent with the Operating Guides for the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission

   Facilities. The Transmission Provider’s authority to direct these actions is limited to

   circumstances where such action is necessary to protect, prevent or manage emergency

   situations, such as abnormal system conditions that require automatic or immediate manual

   action to prevent or limit equipment damage or the loss of facilities or supply that could

   adversely affect the reliability of the Bulk Electric Systems or to restore the system to a normal

   operating state. The Transmission’s Provider’s authority to direct these actions also is subject to

   existing operating restrictions on transmission facilities and existing operating and environmental

   restrictions that limit a generator's ability to change its dispatch. The Reliability Coordination

   Customer shall make known to the Transmission Provider in its Service Agreement executed

   pursuant to Section 74 and Attachment KK-1 of this Tariff all such restrictions of which the

   Reliability Coordination Customer is aware, and shall without undue delay inform the

   Transmission Provider of any subsequent operating restrictions on transmission facilities and

   existing operating and environmental restrictions that limit a generator's ability to change its

   dispatch if such conditions arise during the time that the Transmission Provider is attempting

   mitigating an IROL or SOL violation so as to return the Combined Reliability Systems to a

   reliable state.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 72.14
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall prepare reports, as may be requested by the Reliability

   Coordination Technical Committee, on reliability events within the Bulk Electric Systems that

   require reconfiguration of the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities,

   generation redispatch or firm transmission curtailments. The report shall identify the cause of

   the reliability event and actions taken to prevent reoccurrence, if known to the Transmission

   Provider. A copy of each report shall be provided to the Reliability Coordination Technical

   Committee, and if required by NERC or Regional Entity requirements, to the appropriate

   authorities.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                72.15
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall have a Reliability Coordinator Area restoration plan that

   provides coordination between the restoration plans of the Reliability Coordination Customer

   and other transmission operators and that ensures that reliability is maintained during system

   restoration events.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             72.16
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall monitor the Reliability Coordination Customer’s restoration

   progress when implementing the Reliability Coordination Customer’s system restoration plan

   and shall coordinate any assistance needed by the Reliability Coordination Customer.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            72.17
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   For any Reliability Coordination Customer that is a member of a Reserve Sharing Group, the

   Transmission Provider will coordinate as required by NERC reliability standards with the

   Reliability Coordination Customer to implement deployment of reserves as required.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   72.18
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall act in the interests of reliability for the overall Reliability

   Coordinator Area and the Interconnection, rather than any individual entity. The Transmission

   Provider will not grant any undue preference or advantage to the Reliability Coordination

   Customer, or subject the Reliability Coordination Customer to any undue prejudice or

   disadvantage, with regard to any other users of the transmission system or Market Participants

   under this Tariff, or with regard to the Transmission Owners, in the performance of its duties as

   the Reliability Coordinator, or in the use of data that may be employed by reliability,

   transmission, and energy market systems.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 72.19
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   Any delegation by the Transmission Provider of tasks related to the Reliability Coordination

   Service to another entity shall be memorialized in formal operating agreements with that entity

   and shall be consistent with this Part and the applicable Service Agreement. The Transmission

   Provider shall verify that all delegated tasks are understood, communicated, and addressed

   within its Reliability Coordinator Area. All responsibilities for complying with NERC and

   Regional Entity standards applicable to Reliability Coordinators shall remain with the

   Transmission Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                72.20
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Reliability Coordination Customer will do nothing

   inconsistent with each other’s ownership or other proprietary rights to its data, information,

   software, base data models and operating procedures for software or base data models.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                       72.21
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Reliability Coordination Customer shall reasonably assist

   each other in establishing measures to preserve the integrity and prevent any corruption or loss of

   data; shall retain and preserve any of the other’s data that is supplied to it during the term of the

   applicable Service Agreement; and shall exercise commercially reasonable efforts to preserve the

   integrity of the data that is supplied to it during the term of the applicable Service Agreement in

   order to prevent any corruption or loss of each other’s data.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   72.23
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, nothing in this Part I of Module F shall be

   interpreted to require the Transmission Provider to take any action inconsistent with its filed

   tariffs or any Commission or NERC rule, order, practice, standard or regulation. The duties of

   the Transmission Provider and the Reliability Coordination Customer, as stated in this Part I of

   this Module F, are intended to reflect the requirements of NERC and regional reliability

   standards. If new or modified reliability standards applicable to the Reliability Coordination

   Service create a conflict or inconsistency with the terms and conditions of Part I of this Module

   F, the applicable Service Agreement shall be deemed amended to conform to all applicable

   reliability standards. To the extent necessary, the Transmission Provider will file amendments to

   the Tariff with the Commission to eliminate the conflict.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                              73
FERC Electric Tariff   Reliability Coordination Customer Obligations
MODULES                                                       30.0.0




                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     73.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer will notify the Transmission Provider without undue

   delay of any breakdown, outage, or operating malfunction in its hardware, software or other

   control center equipment, or of any other operating difficulty that prevents, or could prevent, the

   Reliability Coordination Customer from understanding and communicating to the Transmission

   Provider the real time conditions existing in the Reliability Coordination Customer’s balancing

   authority area or transmission system.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    73.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall comply in all respects with the operating policies

   and reliability standards of NERC and of the applicable Regional Entity. In the event that NERC

   or a Regional Entity conducts an audit of the Reliability Coordination Customer’s balancing

   authority or transmission operation or facilities during the term of the applicable Service

   Agreement, the Reliability Coordination Customer shall notify the Transmission Provider of the

   audit and provide it a copy of the audit report and shall implement without undue delay all

   reasonable mitigation or remedial measures required to address deficiencies, if any, identified by

   such reliability or similar audit.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   73.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer will comply with any directives issued by the

   Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 72.10; provided that nothing in this Section 73.3 shall

   require the Reliability Coordination Customer to undertake any action contrary to applicable law,

   or that would constitute a violation of an applicable NERC or Regional Entity standard or to take

   any actions that would endanger the safety of employees or the public, cause damage to facilities

   or violate legal or regulatory requirements. If the Reliability Coordination Customer is unable to

   implement the directives of the Transmission Provider for any reason, it shall immediately

   inform the Transmission Provider of the inability to perform the directive so that the

   Transmission Provider may implement alternate remedial actions.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 73.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Concurrently with its execution of its Service Agreement pursuant to Section 74 and Attachment

   KK-1 of this Tariff, the Reliability Coordination Customer shall provide the Transmission

   Provider with all such information as is reasonably necessary for the Transmission Provider to

   provide the Reliability Coordination Service, including, but not limited to, the following

   information:




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                 73.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                              30.0.0


   Transmission related Operating Guides;




                                            Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  73.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   Information regarding the ratings of all transmission facilities, including methods by which the

   ratings of equipment are determined;




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                73.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Schedules for planned outages and the status of forced outages of the Reliability Coordination

   Customer Transmission Facilities and any generation facilities connected to those facilities

   where any such outage would affect the reliability of the Combined Reliability Systems;




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                      73.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                   30.0.0


   Information regarding the operation of the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission

   Facilities, including, but not limited to, information relating to all breakers, switches, capacitor

   banks, reactors, phase shifters, and flows; and




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              73.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   Transmission planning information for the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission

   Facilities that has an impact on transmission service over the Combined Reliability Systems.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  73.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall have responsibility for taking actions with respect

   to the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities, so as to maintain the reliability

   of the Bulk Electric System in a manner consistent with NERC and applicable Regional Entity

   standards.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                73.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   All actions taken by the Reliability Coordination Customer pursuant to Section 73.5 of this Tariff

   shall be consistent with Operating Guides previously provided to the Transmission Provider

   pursuant to the applicable Service Agreement.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             73.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall be responsible for developing, maintaining and

   implementing a set of plans to mitigate operating emergencies.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    73.8
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall be responsible for developing a system restoration

   plan for the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities that is consistent with the

   Transmission Provider’s Reliability Coordinator Area system restoration plan, provided that such

   consistency: (a) does not endanger the supply of electricity in the Reliability Coordination

   Customer’s balancing authority area; (b) does not endanger equipment or physical safety; and (c)

   does not contravene applicable state law or regulatory orders.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                73.9
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall provide the Transmission Provider with all of the

   Reliability Coordination Customer’s operational data required by the Transmission Provider to

   perform its role as Reliability Coordinator as described in this Part.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  73.10
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   Upon request, the Reliability Coordination Customer shall provide to other balancing authorities

   and transmission operators, operating data necessary to allow the balancing authorities and

   transmission operators to perform operational reliability assessments and to coordinate reliable

   operations.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 73.11
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall provide the Transmission Provider with a document

   defining the criteria used by the Reliability Coordination Customer in developing its Operating

   Guides.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                73.12
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall submit its transmission and generation facility

   maintenance and outage schedules to the Transmission Provider in accordance with existing

   Transmission Provider outage coordination procedures unless otherwise agreed to by the

   Reliability Coordination Customer and the Transmission Provider. The Transmission Provider

   shall have authority to disapprove or to revise these transmission and generation schedules if

   they fail to meet established reliability standards or if necessary to respond to Emergency

   conditions.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              73.13
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall take such action with respect to the Reliability

   Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities as directed by the Transmission Provider

   pursuant to Operating Guides for the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission Facilities

   within 30 minutes of receiving direction from the Transmission Provider.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               73.14
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall obtain approval of the Transmission Provider

   before taking out of service or reconnecting the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission

   Facilities, except where delaying such actions would endanger the safety of employees or the

   public or would cause damage to facilities or would violate legal or regulatory requirements.

   When time does not permit obtaining approval for the reasons stated, the Reliability

   Coordination Customer shall notify the Transmission Provider at the earliest possible time.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                74
FERC Electric Tariff                Service Agreement
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  74.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Service Agreement for Reliability

   Coordination Service to the entity eligible to receive service under Part I of this Module F.

   Executed Service Agreements that contain the information required under this Part shall be filed

   with the Commission in compliance with applicable Commission regulations. The standard form

   of Service Agreement for Reliability Coordination Service is provided in Attachment KK-1 to

   this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              74.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   If the Commission determines that regulatory filings are required to implement the Service

   Agreement, the Transmission Provider and the Reliability Coordination Customer shall

   cooperate with each other as necessary and appropriate to facilitate such filings.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                 75
FERC Electric Tariff           Effective Date and Term
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    75.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The initial term of the Reliability Coordination Service shall be for a period of three (3) years

   after the effective date of the Service Agreement executed pursuant to Section 74 and

   Attachment KK-1 of this Tariff. The Service Agreement shall automatically renew thereafter for

   successive one (1) year terms unless written notice of termination is provided not less than one

   year prior to the end of the initial or any subsequent term. The effective date of the Service

   Agreement shall be the date set forth therein or any other date as may be established by the

   Commission.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    75.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   A Reliability Coordination Customer to which Section 12E of this Tariff applies may terminate

   the Service Agreement executed pursuant to Section 74 and Attachment KK-1 of this Tariff at

   any time during the initial term or any extension thereof with less than the required one-year

   notice, in the event that the statutes governing such Reliability Coordination Customer, or any

   provisions of this Part I of Module F or the provisions of the Tariff incorporated by reference in

   this Part I of Module F are changed or modified in a manner that causes a conflict with state law,

   regulations, or rate schedules and the review process described in Section 12E is unable to

   resolve such conflict.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 75.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Upon written notice to the Transmission Provider that Reliability Coordination Customer is

   exercising its right to terminate its Service Agreement executed pursuant to Section 74 and

   Attachment KK-1 of this Tariff under Section 12E of the Tariff, the Transmission Provider and

   the Reliability Coordination Customer will work in good faith to make all required arrangements

   to transfer to another Reliability Coordinator as soon as possible the data, operating guides,

   modeling, and other requirements to permit the Reliability Coordination Customer to obtain

   reliability coordination service from another service provider.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                           76
FERC Electric Tariff   Transmission System Congestion Management
MODULES                                                    30.0.0




                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              76.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will use the then-current NERC TLR procedures and related NAESB

   business practices to mitigate congestion on the Reliability Coordination Customer Transmission

   Facilities. If the Reliability Coordination Service under this Part is combined with the

   Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service under Part II of this Module F,

   the procedures for congestion management for such a Reliability Coordination Customer shall be

   as set forth in Part II of this Module F.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                  77
FERC Electric Tariff   Compensation for Reliability Coordination Service
MODULES                                                           30.0.0




                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 77.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Reliability Coordination Customers taking service under Part I of this Module F, shall pay for

   Reliability Coordination Service in accordance with Sections 77.2 through 77.5 of this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                      77.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider’s compensation for providing Reliability Coordination Service to the

   Reliability Coordination Customer shall be based on the Transmission Provider’s cost to provide

   such services, as set forth in Schedule 31, Part II, Section A of the Tariff. The calculation of the

   monthly charges for Reliability Coordination Service shall follow the formula set forth in

   Schedule 31, Part II, Section B of this Tariff. The billing and payment terms for service under

   this Part I of Module F are set forth in Section 7.19 of the Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    77.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   Upon termination of the applicable Service Agreement, except for the purpose of becoming a

   Transmission Owning Member of MISO, the Reliability Coordination Customer shall be

   responsible for payment of an allocated share of the remaining book value of all incremental

   capital assets associated with the provision of the services under Part I of this Module F and the

   applicable Service Agreement that are under development or in-service as of the Termination

   Date (“Incremental Reliability Coordination Assets”), and for certain financing costs associated

   with the Incremental Reliability Coordination Assets, as set forth in Section 77.3.1 to 77.3.3.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    77.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                 30.0.0


   For the purposes of Section 77.3 of the Tariff, the calculation of the value for Incremental

   Reliability Coordination Assets shall be the sum of: (a) the remaining book value of all capital

   assets associated with the provision of the services under Part I of this Module F and the

   applicable Service Agreement that were placed into service on or after December 31, 2007; and

   (b) the balance of all work in progress on assets associated with the provision of the Reliability

   Coordination Service as of the date of termination.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                77.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   In addition to payment owed for an allocated share of Incremental Reliability Coordination

   Assets, the Reliability Coordination Customer shall be responsible for payment of an allocated

   share of the remaining interest expense over the life of any outstanding debt issued subsequent to

   December 31, 2007 that is or was used to finance the development or acquisition of capital assets

   associated with the provision of the Reliability Coordination Service that were placed into

   service on or after December 31, 2007. The Reliability Coordination Customer shall also be

   responsible for payment of an allocated share of any remaining payments associated with lease

   obligations incurred on or after December 31, 2007 that are or were used to finance the

   development or acquisition of assets associated with the provision of Reliability Coordination

   Service that were placed into service on or after December 31, 2007.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    77.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                 30.0.0


   In computing the financial obligations outstanding as of the date of termination, the lump sum

   amount owed under this Section 77.3 that is associated with remaining interest payments over

   the life of the outstanding debt that is associated with the provision of Reliability Coordination

   Service shall be discounted to a net present value amount with the discount rate used equal to the

   expected interest rate to be earned on funds held in the investment account of the Transmission

   Provider.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                77.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall also be responsible for payment of an allocated

   share of the accrued current liabilities on the balance sheet of the Transmission Provider as of the

   date of termination of the Service Agreement.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 77.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Customer shall pay a Load Ratio Share of these incremental

   financial obligations. The load ratio share shall be calculated as the Reliability Coordination

   Customer’s monthly peak demand for the twelve months preceding the termination of the

   Service Agreement, relative to the sum of the monthly peak demand during that period of all

   Reliability Coordination Customers and all Tariff Customers receiving Network Integration

   Transmission Service under the Tariff. All peak demand information shall be converted into

   Maximum Energy Transfer data as defined in Part II, Section A, of Schedule 10 of this Tariff.

   The Transmission Provider shall use the non-coincident peak demand for each Reliability

   Coordination Customer multiplied by the number of hours in a month to derive the Reliability

   Coordination Customer’s Maximum Energy Transfer value. The Transmission Provider shall

   compute Maximum Energy Transfer values for its Tariff Customers taking Network Integration

   Transmission Service during the preceding month from their non-coincident peak demand. The

   Reliability Coordination Customer shall pay the entire amount owed under this Section 77 at the

   time the applicable Service Agreement is terminated.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               77.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   As to a Reliability Coordination Customer to which Section 12E of this Tariff applies, the

   obligation to make the payments under this Section is subordinate and junior in all respects to the

   obligation of the Reliability Coordination Customer to pay the principal and interest on its bonds.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               77.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   Each Reliability Coordination Customer shall provide to the Transmission Provider the monthly

   peak demand required by the Transmission Provider to calculate the applicable charge as set

   forth in Schedule 31 of this Tariff. Such data shall be transmitted electronically to the

   Transmission Provider no more than five (5) Business Days after the end of each calendar

   month.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   77.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   During March of each calendar year, the Transmission Provider shall update the percentage cost

   allocations currently set forth in Table 1 and Table 2 of Schedule 31 of this Tariff. The revised

   percentage cost allocation values shall then be used to compute monthly charges for Reliability

   Coordination Service for the next twelve months as specified in Schedule 31. On or before April

   1 of each year in which the applicable Service Agreement is in effect, the Transmission Provider

   shall provide to the Reliability Coordination Customer a copy of the applicable charge cost

   allocation for the twelve month period beginning April 1, and a reasonable explanation of its

   calculation.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  77.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Part I of Module F, all amounts paid by the

   Transmission Provider as the result of fines or penalties imposed by or associated with a NERC

   or a Regional Entity enforcement action shall be recovered pursuant to a Commission-approved

   Tariff charge, and the Reliability Coordination Customer shall pay its allocated share of such

   costs, on the same basis as other costs included in the charges set forth in Section 77 of this

   Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                             78
FERC Electric Tariff   Reliability Coordination Technical Committee
MODULES                                                      30.0.0




                                  Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 78.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   A Reliability Coordination Technical Committee is hereby established. The Transmission

   Provider and each Reliability Coordination Customer shall be a voting member of the Reliability

   Coordination Technical Committee.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  78.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   A member’s representative in the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee shall be a

   person of reasonable competency and with such authority as to uphold the decisions made, to the

   extent such decisions do not require formal approval under governing state laws and regulations.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                      78.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                  30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Technical Committee shall meet at least quarterly during the first

   year after the effective date of Part I of this Module F, and shall meet periodically thereafter as

   the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee shall, by a majority vote of three-fourths of

   those entitled to vote, determine to be necessary to perform its duties in a reliable and efficient

   manner. By a majority vote of three-fourths of those entitled to vote, the Reliability

   Coordination Committee may expand participation and voting rights in the Committee’s

   proceedings to include transmission service customers of Reliability Coordination Customers

   that may be affected by Reliability Coordination Service under this Part I.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    78.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   In cooperation with the Transmission Provider, and consistent with the requirements of this

   Tariff and all applicable reliability standards, the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee

   shall:

   a.       review procedures for the implementation of the operating and technical requirements of

   Part I of this Module F;

   b.       review and comment upon operating practices and guides to ensure the safe and reliable

   operation of their facilities consistent with applicable NERC and Regional Entity standards;

   c.       participate in the development of Business Practices Manuals for the administration of

   Part I of this Module F on a reliable and economically efficient basis; and

   d.       address other matters referred to in, or necessary for implementation, administration or

   operation of, Part I of this Module F.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 78.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Recommendations and other actions of the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee shall

   be by a three-fourths majority of those present and entitled to vote under the rules adopted by the

   Reliability Coordination Technical Committee to govern its proceedings. Nothing herein shall

   prohibit the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee from developing rules and procedures

   regarding proxy voting, and/or procedures to allow electronic meeting or voting.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     78.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                 30.0.0


   All proceedings and decisions of the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee shall be

   reduced to writing and signed by the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee

   representatives, but such proceedings and decisions shall not be inconsistent with and shall not

   serve to contradict any terms or conditions of the Tariff in effect at the time of such procedures

   or decisions being made or developed. Tariff changes recommended by the Reliability

   Coordination Technical Committee, with which MISO concurs, shall be reviewed and discussed

   by the Advisory Committee before filing with the Commission.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    78.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Participation in the activities of the Reliability Coordination Technical Committee by the

   Transmission Provider or by the Reliability Coordination Customer shall not constitute a waiver

   by that entity of any of its rights under the Federal Power Act to initiate a proceeding, make any

   other filing, or advance any position regarding any matter before the Commission.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   78.8
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Reliability Coordination Technical Committee may coordinate its activities with the

   activities of the appropriate committee, subcommittee or task force of the Transmission

   Provider’s stakeholder group dealing with similar reliability issues, and may vote to suspend

   some or all of the meetings of this committee in order to attend and participate in the activities of

   such group if the Charter of that committee, subcommittee or task force provide for such

   participation.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                      II
FERC Electric TariffINTERCONNECTED OPERATIONS AND CONGESTION MANAGEMENT SERVICE
MODULES                                                               30.0.0


  Preamble

  The Transmission Provider shall provide, subject to the terms and conditions of this Part II of

  Module F, specific congestion management services, including redispatch of generation within

  the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, for interconnected transmission providers.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                79
FERC Electric Tariff                        Eligibility
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   79.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   To be eligible for Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service under this

   Part, a Congestion Management Customer must: (i) be a NERC Registered Transmission

   Provider providing reciprocal transmission service pursuant to an open access transmission tariff

   or other applicable tariff using transmission facilities that are physically connected to the

   Transmission System; and (ii) register as a Market Participant pursuant to the Tariff. A

   Congestion Management Customer may not be, during the time service is provided under this

   Part II, a signatory to the ISO Agreement. As a condition to obtaining service, the Congestion

   Management Customer must execute an applicable Service Agreement, as set forth in Section 85

   and Attachment KK-2 of this Tariff, and provide to the Transmission Provider the information

   required by this Part.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                 80
FERC Electric Tariff   Transfer of Information and Data
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   80.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer (or the Congestion

   Management Customer’s tariff administrator or Reliability Coordinator as appropriate) shall

   transfer to each other the following types of data and information:

   (a) Real-Time and Projected Operating Data (80.1.1);

   (b) SCADA Data (80.1.2);

   (c) EMS Models (80.1.3); and

   (d) Operations Planning Data (80.1.4).

   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall provide to each

   other the data identified in items (a) through (d) above with respect to all transmission owners for

   which they administer transmission service on the effective date of this Part and thereafter,

   whether or not they administer such transmission service as of the effective date. The

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall cooperate to supply such

   data and information (to the extent such information is the subject of this Part) as the

   Independent Market Monitor may request in order to facilitate monitoring in accordance with the

   Transmission Provider’s Commission approved market monitoring plan.

   To ensure the accuracy of all critical operating data, the Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer will designate to each other, a contact person to be available

   twenty-four (24) hours each day, seven (7) days per week, and an alternate contact to act in the

   absence or unavailability of the primary contact, to respond to any inquiries. With respect to

   each contact and alternate, the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer

   shall provide to each other the name, telephone number, e-mail address, and fax number. The

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer may change a designated




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                      80.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   contact from time to time by notice to each other’s designated representative. The Transmission

   Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall transfer data to each other in a timely

   manner consistent with existing defined formats or such other formats to which they may agree.

   If any required data transfer format has not been agreed upon as of the effective date of this Part,

   or if the Transmission Provider or the Congestion Management Customer determines that an

   agreed format should be revised, it shall give notice of the need for an agreed format or revision

   to the other party, and the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will

   jointly seek to complete development of the format within thirty (30) days of such notice. Upon

   agreement, development will be completed as soon as practical.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                80.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall exchange two

   categories of operating data, real-time information and projected information, as follows:

   a.     The real–time operating information consisting of:

          i.      generation status of the units, as telemetered or as derived from the unit breaker,

          in each party’s tariff or footprint;

          ii.     transmission line status, i.e., status of switching devices associated with each end

          of the line;

          iii.    balancing authority area demands;

          iv.     selected real-time telemetered bus loads where available;

          v.      scheduled use of reservations;

          vi.     critical facility limits; and

   b.     Projected operating information consisting of:

          i.      merit order block loading;

          ii.     generating unit and transmission facilities maintenance schedules;

          iii.    the planned operational start-up or change dates for any permanently added,

          removed or significantly altered transmission segments; and

          iv.     the planned start-up testing and operational start-up or change dates for any

          permanently added, removed or significantly altered generation units.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                80.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall transfer data as set

   forth below, consistent with NERC requirements for the transfer of data by balancing authorities

   and Reliability Coordinators:

   i.      The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall transfer

   requested SCADA Data via ICCP or ISN;

   ii.     The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall

   accommodate, as soon as practical, the other party’s requests for additional existing ICCP/ISN

   bulk transmission data points, after the request has been submitted;

    iii.   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall respond, as

   soon as practical, to the other party’s requests for additional, unavailable ICCP/ISN bulk

   transmission data points, but in any event no more than two (2) weeks after the request has been

   submitted, with an expected availability target date for the requested data;

   iv.     The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall comply with

   all governing confidentiality agreements executed between them relating to ICCP/ISN data; and

   v.      All ICCP data transferred between the Transmission Provider and the Congestion

   Management Customer shall be transferred via ISN (NERCNet), unless another transfer platform

   is otherwise agreed upon.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   80.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The Congestion Management Customer and the Transmission Provider shall exchange EMS

   models once a year in the common information model (“CIM”) format adopted by the NERC

   Data Exchange Working Group, or in an otherwise agreed-upon format, with monthly updates to

   be provided as new data becomes available. This yearly transfer will include the ISN data

   definition files, identification of individual bus loads, seasonal equipment ratings and one-line

   drawings that will be used to expedite the model conversion process. The monthly updates

   represent the incremental changes that have occurred to the EMS model since the last monthly

   update.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  80.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   Upon the written request of either the Transmission Provider or the Congestion Management

   Customer, the other party shall provide the information specified in Sections 80.1.4.1 through

   80.1.4.11 of this Tariff. Each request shall specify the information sought and the frequency

   upon which it shall be provided, and, with respect to Sections 80.1.4.6, 80.1.4.7, and 80.1.4.8,

   the reason why provision of the information is necessary to achieve the objectives of Part II of

   this Module F.

   If the Transmission Provider or the Congestion Management Customer receives a request under

   this Section, it shall provide the information promptly to the extent the information is available.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             80.1.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Flowgates:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   i.     Flowgate definitions including seasonal TTC, TRM, CBM, and appropriate multipliers;

   ii.    Flowgates to be added to OASIS Request Evaluation processes on demand, if needed

   immediately for reliability;

   iii.   List of Coordinated and Reciprocal Coordinated Flowgates;

   iv.    List of Flowgates to recognize when processing transmission service (if different than list

   of Coordinated and Reciprocal Flowgates);

   v.     Operating Guides; and

   vi.    Requirements under Section 81.1.7 of this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          80.1.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff                                                Transmission Service Reservations:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   i.     Daily list of all transmission service requests, hourly increment of new requests and

   status changes on existing requests;

   ii.    List of reservations to include and to exclude; and

   iii.   Requirements under Sections 81.1.4 and 81.1.5 of this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             80.1.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                           AFC Data:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer currently meet and will

   continue to meet a minimum periodicity for calculating and posting AFCs. The minimum

   periodicity depends on the service being offered. The following AFC data will be provided:

   i.       Hourly for the first seven (7) days posted at a minimum, once per hour;

   ii.      Daily for days eight (8) through thirty-one (31) posted at a minimum, once per day; and

   iii.     Monthly for months two (2) through thirty-six (36) posted at a minimum, once per

   month.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                80.1.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                          Load Forecast:
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will provide the

   following load forecast information.

   i.     Hourly for next seven (7) days, daily for days three (3) through thirty-one (31), and

   monthly for months two (2) through thirty-six (36) submitted once a day;

   ii.    Identify whether the load forecast is for Balancing Authority Area or sub-Balancing

   Authority Area (by company within the Balancing Authority Area) forecast;

   iii.   Indicate whether this includes transmission system losses, and if it does, indicate what the

   percent losses are;

   iv.    Identify non-conforming loads, as defined by NERC;

   v.     Indicate how municipal entities, cooperatives and other entity loads are treated; indicate

   whether they are included in the forecast; and, if so, indicate the total load or net load after

   removing other entity generation; and

   vi.    Requirements under Section 81.1.6 of this Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          80.1.4.5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Generator Data:
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   i.     Unit owner, bus location in model;

   ii.    Seasonal ratings, PMIN, PMAX, QMIN, QMAX;

   iii.   Station auxiliaries to extent gross generation has been reported;

   iv.    Regulated bus, target voltage and actual voltage;

   v.     Planned maintenance; and

   vi.    Real-time output (MW & MVAR) with net generation after being reduced for station

   auxiliaries preferred.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           80.1.4.6
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Jointly-Owned Units:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   i.     Deemed ownership shares;

   ii.    Treatment as pseudo tie or dynamic/static schedules;

   iii.   Rules for sharing output between joint owners of those units that affect the operating

   seam between the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer; and

   iv.    Transmission arrangements between joint owners.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                        80.1.4.7
FERC Electric Tariff                                                        Intermittent Generation:
MODULES                                                                                       30.0.0


   i.     Accredited capacity;

   ii.    Planned maintenance;

   iii.   Whether aggregated generation or generation by piece of equipment; and

   iv.    Whether all output is tagged.




                                                                   Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         80.1.4.8
FERC Electric Tariff                                  BAA Net Interchange from Reservations and Tags
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   i.     Any grandfathered agreements that do not appear in OASIS; and

   ii.    If tags and reservations can no longer be used to develop balancing authority area or zone

   net interchange, merit order block loading information will be needed for all generators in the

   balancing authority area/zone.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                         80.1.4.9
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Dynamic Transfers:
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   i.     List of dynamic transfers;

   ii.    Identification of each dynamic transfer as a dynamic schedule or pseudo-tie, as defined

   by NERC; and

   iii.   Requirements under Section 81.1 of this Tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          80.1.4.10
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Controllable Devices:
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   i.     List of controllable devices that may include: phase shifters, DC lines, and back-to-back

   AC/DC converters; and

   ii.    Operating practices of the controllable devices.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                            80.1.4.11
FERC Electric Tariff                                                 Generation and Transmission Outages:
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   i.     Generation Outages that are planned or forecast, as soon as practicable after they are

   identified, including all data specified in Section 81.1.1 of this Tariff;

   ii.    Transmission Outages that are planned or forecast, as soon as practicable after they are

   identified, including all data specified in Section 81.1.3 of this Tariff; and

   iii.   Prompt notification of all forced Outages of both generation and transmission resources.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    80.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall periodically confer

   regarding the need to transfer any information other than that identified for transfer in Section

   80.1, and shall negotiate in good faith to make agreements for the transfer of such additional

   information as is necessary to achieve the objectives of this Part.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              80.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall bear their own cost

   of providing information to each other pursuant to Sections 80.1 and 80.2 of this Tariff.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                             81
FERC Electric Tariff          TTC/ATC/AFC Protocols
MODULES                                      30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    81.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   As of the effective date of this Part, the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management

   Customer shall use the NERC System Data Exchange (“SDX”) System to transfer the status of

   generators, Outages of all interconnections and other critical transmission facilities, and peak

   load forecasts, which has the capability to house daily data for the next seven (7) days, weekly

   data for the next month, and monthly data for the next year. The specific criteria for satisfying

   the requirements of this Section 81 shall be set forth in the TTC/ATC/AFC Protocol which shall

   be incorporated into and made a part of the Service Agreement executed by the Congestion

   Management Customer and the Transmission Provider pursuant to Section 85 and Attachment

   KK-2 of this Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 81.1.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall provide each other

   with projected status of generation availability over the next twelve (12) months. If information

   is available, the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer may provide

   more than twelve (12) months of information regarding the projected status of generation

   availability. The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will update

   this data no less than once daily for the full posting horizon and more often as required by system

   conditions. The data will include complete generation maintenance schedules and the most

   current generator availability data, such that each party is aware of the “return date” of each

   generator subject to a scheduled or forced outage.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  81.1.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   As necessary to permit the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer to

   develop a reasonably accurate dispatch for the calculation of TTC and ATC/AFC values under

   any modeled condition, they shall provide each other with a typical generation merit order or the

   generation participation factors of all units on an affected balancing authority area basis. The

   generation merit order will be updated as required by changes in the status of the unit; however,

   a new generation merit order need not be provided more often than prior to each peak load

   season.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                81.1.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall provide each other

   with the projected status of transmission outage schedules over the next twelve (12) months or

   more if available. This data shall be updated no less than once daily for the full posting horizon

   and more often as required by system conditions. The data will include current, accurate and

   complete transmission facility maintenance schedules, including the “outage date” and “return

   date” of a transmission facility from a scheduled or forced outage.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               81.1.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall make available to

   each other their interchange schedules, as required to permit accurate calculation of TTC and

   ATC/AFC values. Due to the high volume of this data, the Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer shall either post this data to an FTP site for download or

   shall request NERC to modify the IDC to allow for selected interrogation by each other.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                      81.1.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall coordinate

   transmission service requests as follows:




                                                                 Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              81.1.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall make available to

   each other, on an FTP site, all transmission service request information available for integration

   into their ATC/AFC calculation process. The Transmission Provider shall provide transmission

   service request information from its OASIS Node. The Congestion Management Customer shall

   provide transmission service request information from the Congestion Management Customer

   OASIS Node.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                81.1.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall develop practices

   for modeling their transmission service requests, including external third party requests. The

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall provide each other with

   the procedures developed and implemented to model intra-party requests under the Congestion

   Management Customer’s transmission tariff and other designated tariffs that may be used to

   provide transmission service.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             81.1.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Transactions are not included in ATC/AFC determinations if the impacts from the transmission

   service request are already accounted in a base case model or some other component of the

   ATC/AFC calculation. The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer

   shall create and maintain a list, on an FTP site, of transmission service requests on their OASIS

   Node that are not included in their own ATC/AFC determination process, so that the

   transmission service request is excluded in each other’s analysis.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               81.1.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall transfer peak load

   data for each period (e.g., daily, weekly, and monthly). Because peak load values may only

   apply to one (1) hour of the period, additional assumptions must be made with respect to load

   level when not at peak load conditions. For the next seven (7) day horizon, the Transmission

   Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall either supply hourly load forecasts or

   they shall supply daily peak load forecasts with a load profile.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                           81.1.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   To determine if a transmission service reservation (or interchange schedule) will impact

   Flowgates to an extent greater than the (firm or non firm) AFC and to assure that the

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer respect each other’s

   Flowgates, the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will transfer

   Firm and Non-firm AFC for all Coordinated Flowgates. The Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer will continue to accept or reject transmission service requests

   based upon projected loadings on their own Flowgates as well as the loadings on the other

   party’s Flowgates so as not to exceed the posted AFC.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                81.1.8
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will transfer Flowgate

   Ratings as well as all limiting conditions (thermal, voltage, or stability) in accordance with

   Attachment M of the Tariff. The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management

   Customer will update this information in a timely manner as required by changes on the

   transmission system.




                                                                        Effective On: December 31, 9998
MISO                                                                                                81.1.9
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   In accordance with Attachment LL of this Tariff, Flowgates that have a response factor equal to

   or greater than the distribution factor cut-off must be included in the evaluating party’s model to

   the extent inclusion is practical. The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management

   Customer shall use the response factor cut-off that the owning/operating party uses for its

   Flowgate in its AFC determination efforts.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                81.1.10
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will ensure that all

   significant system changes are incorporated in their TTC/ATC/AFC calculation models.

   Although this information and additional, detailed data are included in the MMWG cases, this

   data transfer mechanism will address the major changes that should be included in the

   TTC/ATC/AFC calculation models in a more timely manner. This data transfer will occur no

   less often than prior to each peak load season. In addition, the Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer agree to transfer TTC/ATC/AFC calculation models of their

   transmission systems as soon as mechanisms can be established to facilitate this transfer.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               81.1.11
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Following standardization of TTC/ATC/AFC calculations pursuant to Commission order and

   action by NERC and NAESB, the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management

   Customer shall confer to determine whether the protocols continue to be necessary, and if so,

   what revisions to the protocols or this Part may be required to comply with the current standards

   and practices. The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall

   cooperate in good faith to implement such revisions as quickly as possible.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                     82
FERC Electric Tariff   Reciprocal Coordination of Flowgates
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 82.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   In order to coordinate congestion management proactively, the Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer agree to respect each other’s determinations of AFC/ATC

   and curtailment priorities for real-time operations applicable to their Coordinated Flowgates

   (CFs). Additionally, the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer

   agree to respect the allocations defined by the reciprocal allocation process set forth in the

   Congestion Management Process (CMP), which is set forth in Attachment LL to this Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              82.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The process and timing for exchanging ATC/AFC calculations and Firm Flow

   calculations/allocations with respect to all RCFs are set forth in the CMP.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                82.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider’s and the Congestion Management Customer’s capabilities and real

   time actions shall be governed by and in accordance with the coordination process for RCFs, as

   set forth in the CMP.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                82.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider will utilize its Unit Dispatch System (UDS) and Security-

   Constrained Unit Commitment (SCUC) in effect at the time to manage the portion of the flows

   on an RCF allocated to the Transmission Provider. The Congestion Management Customer’s

   Reliability Coordinator will utilize NERC TLR process to manage the portion of the flows on an

   RCF allocated to the Congestion Management Customer.




                                                                    Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                              82.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                         30.0.0


   [Reserved]




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              82.5a
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   If the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer have contract

   paths to the same entity, the combined contract path capacity will be made available for

   use by both parties. This will not create new contract paths for either Party that did not

   previously exist. The Congestion Management Customer will not be able to deal directly

   with companies with which it does not physically or contractually interconnect and the

   Transmission Provider will not be able to deal directly with companies with which it does

   not physically or contractually interconnect.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                       83
FERC Electric Tariff   Generation Redispatch and Compensation
MODULES                                                30.0.0




                              Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                     83.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                 30.0.0


   The Congestion Management Customer’s Reliability Coordinator will use the NERC TLR

   procedures to mitigate congestion on the Congestion Management Customer’s Transmission

   System. As a condition of service under this Part, the Congestion Management Customer shall

   redispatch generation under its control, as set forth in Section 83.2 through Section 83.6 of this

   Tariff, in consideration of which MISO will redispatch generation at the request of the

   Congestion Management Customer, as set forth in Section 83.2 through Section 83.6 of this

   Tariff. Redispatch under this Section shall be implemented for the purpose of relieving actual or

   contingency overloads on flowgates when the party requesting redispatch determines that

   meeting its assigned relief obligation would be operationally burdensome or the cost of relieving

   the actual or contingency overload would be substantial.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    83.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   In the initial Service Agreement Attachment KK-2, or upon a subsequent request by either party,

   the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall confer to identify:

   (i) transmission operating constraints that could result in TLR or other emergency procedures in

   order to alleviate the transmission constraints, the need for which could be reduced or eliminated

   by the redispatch of generation controlled by the Congestion Management Customer or

   generation which is subject to redispatch by MISO, and (ii) the generation units on the

   Transmission System of MISO and on the Congestion Management Customer’s system, the

   redispatch of which would alleviate the identified transmission constraints. In the event that the

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer identify additional

   transmission constraints and generation units, the applicable Service Agreement Attachment KK-

   2 may be amended to include the additional transmission constraints and generating units.

   Agreement to the additional transmission operating constraints or generation units shall not be

   unreasonably withheld.

   If, pursuant to the process set forth in this Section 83.2, the Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer identify units on the Congestion Management Customer’s

   system that are not controlled by the Congestion Management Customer, the Congestion

   Management Customer will make a good faith effort to assist Transmission Provider to obtain an

   agreement between the Transmission Provider and the unit operator to provide generation

   redispatch, and Congestion Management Customer will facilitate the transmission of energy

   necessary to effect redispatch under such third party agreements, as set forth in an operating

   procedure developed under Section 83.3.1.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                              83.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  83.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The following redispatch procedures shall apply to generation redispatch arising under this Part

   II:




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               83.3.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   Redispatch procedures (operation procedures) for each flowgate shall be developed and agreed

   upon in writing by the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer prior

   to providing redispatch service. The operation procedures shall include but not be limited to

   generator ramp rates, time commitment for the Transmission Provider’s or the Congestion

   Management Customer’s generators such as minimum run times, minimum down times and/or a

   fuel delivery commitment period, and transmission arrangements. Implementation of the

   operating procedures shall be coordinated with the Congestion Management Customer.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  83.3.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   If TLR is called on a transmission flowgate subject to this Part, then the Transmission Provider

   or the Congestion Management Customer may request that the other party redispatch one or

   more of the units identified pursuant to Section 83.2 hereof to alleviate the requesting party’s

   TLR assigned impacts on the transmission flowgate.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   83.3.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   Upon such request, the Transmission Provider or Congestion Management Customer will

   redispatch one or more of the units identified pursuant to Section 83.2. In no event shall the

   Congestion Management Customer or the Transmission Provider be required to redispatch or

   cycle the output of any unit if such redispatch or cycling: (i) may impair the safe and reliable

   operation of the units; (ii) is inconsistent with Good Utility Practice or this Tariff, including the

   limitations set forth in Section 83.3.4; or (iii) is contrary to any NERC requirement, or any legal

   or regulatory rule, standard or prohibition.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             83.3.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   The Congestion Management Customer will not implement a redispatch request under this

   Section 83.3, unless and until the Transmission Provider verifies the availability and

   deliverability into the Congestion Management Customer’s system of replacement power from

   the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, if such power is required by the Congestion

   Management Customer. If the Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management

   Customer do not concur on the availability and deliverability of replacement power, and that the

   purchase of such power as described in Section 83.4 of this Tariff can be completed without

   creating adverse conditions elsewhere on the systems of either party, the Congestion

   Management Customer will not implement the redispatch request, even though the criteria set

   forth in Section 83.3.3(i), (ii) and (iii) have been met.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 83.3.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   If implementing redispatch in response to a redispatch request involves a change in ramp rate, or

   time commitment for the Transmission Provider’s or the Congestion Management Customer’s

   generators such as minimum run times, minimum down times and/or a fuel delivery commitment

   period that varies from operating procedures developed pursuant to Section 83.3.1, this

   information will be provided in the response to the request for redispatch and will be factored

   into the decision to proceed with the redispatch request.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              83.3.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   If there is mutual agreement between the Transmission Provider and the Congestion

   Management Customer to implement a redispatch request, it will be implemented at a start time

   that may differ from the beginning of the clock hour. Likewise, the Transmission Provider and

   the Congestion Management Customer each retain the right to discontinue a redispatch request in

   the event the redispatch is no longer needed or the generators being used for redispatch are

   needed to avoid a violation of the criteria set forth in Section 83.3.3 for implementing a

   redispatch request. The redispatch will be discontinued at a mutually agreed upon stop time

   which may differ from the end of the clock hour.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               83.3.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall operate their

   systems in good faith and, consistent with Good Utility Practice, to avoid dispatching generation

   or taking other actions for the sole purpose of causing or increasing congestion on flowgates that

   are subject to this Part II of Module F.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                          83.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                   30.0.0


   The Congestion Management Customer and the Transmission Provider shall be compensated as

   follows for redispatch service.




                                                                Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                83.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   During the period of time that the Congestion Management Customer reduces the output of its

   units in response to a request from the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 83.3,

   and does not simultaneously increase the output of one or more Congestion Management

   Customer units on the opposite side of the constraint to equal or exceed the decrease in output of

   the decremented units, the Congestion Management Customer shall purchase from the MISO

   Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market at the Congestion Management Customer-

   Transmission Provider interface, a quantity of energy equal to the megawatt hour quantity of the

   net reduction in output for the duration of the net reduction in output. The price for such

   purchase shall be the Locational Marginal Price in effect over such time at the Congestion

   Management Customer-Transmission Provider interface node. The Transmission Provider and

   the Congestion Management Customer shall develop an Operating Procedure for the

   implementation of redispatch requests under this Agreement. If the Operating Procedure is

   followed for a redispatch request, the Congestion Management Customer shall not be required to

   pay any Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee charges for quantity deviations from Day-Ahead

   Schedules as specified in Section 40.3.3.2.a.i that would otherwise be associated with purchases

   under this Section 83.4.1 to comply with that redispatch request.




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                                  83.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               33.0.0


   For each occasion that the Congestion Management Customer increases the output of its units in

   response to a request from the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 83.3, and does

   not simultaneously decrease the output of one or more Congestion Management Customer units

   on the opposite side of the constraint to match at least the increased output of the incremented

   units, the Transmission Provider shall arrange, for and on behalf of the MISO Market

   Participants, the delivery of a quantity of Energy from the Congestion Management Customer

   equal to the megawatt hour quantity of the net increase in output for the duration of the net

   increase in output. The price for such delivery shall be the Day-Ahead Ex Post LMP or the

   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the Congestion Management Customer-Transmission

   Provider interface node at the time of each occasion. If the Operating Procedure referred to in

   the preceding Section 83.4.1 is followed for a redispatch request, the Congestion Management

   Customer shall not be required to pay any Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee charges for quantity

   deviations from Day-Ahead Schedules as specified in Section 40.3.3.2.a.i that would otherwise

   be associated with purchases under this Section 83.4.2 to comply with that redispatch request.




                                                                       Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                              83.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   For each occasion that the Congestion Management Customer increases the output of its units in

   response to a request from the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 83.3 of this

   Tariff, and simultaneously decreases the output of one or more Congestion Management

   Customer units on the opposite side of the constraint to match the increased output of the

   incremented units, no purchase from the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market is

   required.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              83.4.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   In addition, the Transmission Provider shall be obligated to pay and shall pay to the Congestion

   Management Customer, by and on behalf of the MISO Market Participants, in accordance with

   the following:




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               83.4.4.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   When the Congestion Management Customer decreases the output of its units in response to a

   request from the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 83.3 of this Tariff and there

   is not an offsetting and equal increase in the output of Congestion Management Customer units

   on the opposite side of the constraint as described in Section 83.4.1, the Transmission Provider

   shall pay to the Congestion Management Customer an amount equal to the amount that the

   Congestion Management Customer pays to the Transmission Provider for the energy purchases

   described in Section 83.4.1 of this Tariff, plus any transmission and transmission related charges

   billed to the Congestion Management Customer to effect the redispatch request (including an

   adjustment to reflect increased Transmission Provider energy market resettlement charges

   totaling $200.00 or more in any month, related to previous redispatch events), minus the

   “Change in Total System Cost.”

   If the amount the Congestion Management Customer pays to the Transmission Provider for

   energy purchases described in Section 83.4.1 of this Tariff is less than the “Change in Total

   System Cost,” there will be no Transmission Provider payment to the Congestion Management

   Customer.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             83.4.4.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                               30.0.0


   When the Congestion Management Customer increases the output of its units in response to a

   request from the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 83.3 of this Tariff and there

   is not an offsetting and equal decrease in the output of Congestion Management Customer units

   on the opposite side of the constraint as described in Section 83.4.2, the Transmission Provider

   shall pay to Congestion Management Customer an amount equal to 110% of the “Change in

   Total System Cost,” plus the Congestion Management Customer’s applicable start-up costs and

   the cost for minimum generation output, plus any transmission and transmission related

   charges billed to the Congestion Management Customer to effect the redispatch request

   (including an adjustment to reflect increased Transmission Provider energy market resettlement

   charges totaling $200.00 or more in any month, related to previous redispatch events), minus the

   amount the Transmission Provider pays to the Congestion Management Customer for energy

   deliveries arranged for and on behalf of the MISO Market Participants, as described in Section

   83.4.2. If 110% of the “Change in Total System Cost” is less than the amount the Transmission

   Provider pays to the Congestion Management Customer for energy deliveries arranged for and

   on behalf of the MISO Market Participants as described in Section 83.4.2, the Transmission

   Provider will pay the Congestion Management Customer only for its applicable start-up costs

   and cost for minimum generation output.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             83.4.4.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   When the Congestion Management Customer increases the output of its units in response to a

   request from the Transmission Provider in accordance with Section 83.3 of this Tariff and there

   is an offsetting and equal decrease in the output of Congestion Management Customer units on

   the opposite side of the constraint as described in Section 83.4.3, the Transmission Provider shall

   pay 110% of the Congestion Management Customer’s “Change in Total System Cost” plus any

   applicable start-up costs and the cost for minimum generation output.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 83.5
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   Prior to requesting generation redispatch, the Congestion Management Customer may request a

   shadow price, as calculated by the Transmission Provider’s SCED algorithm, that represents an

   estimate in $/MWh of the redispatch cost of the Transmission Provider’s generating resources to

   mitigate the Congestion Management Customer’s assigned TLR requirements.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              83.5.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   If the Congestion Management Customer requests the Transmission Provider to perform a

   generation redispatch of the Transmission Provider’s resources and the Transmission Provider

   can accomplish such redispatch directly through its SCED algorithm through binding of the

   applicable flowgate, the Congestion Management Customer shall pay the Transmission Provider

   for and on behalf of the MISO Market Participants in an amount equal to the amount of Energy

   relief volume provided on the flowgate multiplied by such shadow price. If the redispatch

   request is accomplished by performing a Manual Redispatch, the Congestion Management

   Customer shall pay the Transmission Provider for and on behalf of the MISO Market

   Participants in an amount equal to any compensation resulting from such Manual Redispatch as

   calculated pursuant to Schedule 27.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                83.5.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             33.0.0


   For redispatch of generation requiring transfers of Energy in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market, the Congestion Management Customer will receive charges or credits

   associated with such transfers that will be settled at the Hourly Real-Time Ex Post LMP at the

   Congestion Management Customer-Transmission Provider interface node, including any

   applicable Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Charges for quantity deviations from Day-Ahead

   Schedules as specified in Section 40.3.3.2.a.i. Where re-dispatch of generation includes the

   additional commitment of MISO Resources, the Congestion Management Customer shall pay, in

   addition to previously specified charges, an amount equal to the applicable Start-Up costs and

   the No-Load Production Costs for the Resource.




                                                                      Effective On: November 12, 2016
MISO                                                                                               83.5.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   If the redispatch of generation by the Transmission Provider requires associated Transmission

   Service on the Transmission System, or on the system of the Congestion Management Customer,

   the Congestion Management Customer shall arrange and pay for such associated Transmission

   Service as required by the applicable tariff.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    83.6
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The amounts paid by the Transmission Provider to the Congestion Management Customer for

   redispatch during any hour under this Part will be funded from congestion charges collected as

   part of the real-time settlement. To the extent that congestion charges collected as part of the

   real-time settlement are not sufficient to fund the payment to the Congestion Management

   Customer, the remaining payment shall be funded pro rata by Market Participants on a load ratio

   share basis, where load ratio share is equal to: the sum of a Market Participant’s (i) withdrawals

   at Commercial Nodes, excluding withdrawals associated with Carved-Out GFAs and (ii)

   Exports, divided by the sum of all withdrawals at commercial nodes (excluding withdrawals at

   commercial nodes with Carved-Out GFAs) and all Export Schedules for all applicable Market

   Participants in the hour or hours during which redispatch was provided by the Congestion

   Management Customer. The amounts paid to the Transmission Provider from the Congestion

   Management Customer for redispatch during any hour under this Part will be added to the

   congestion charges collected as part of the real-time settlement and distributed to Market

   Participants on a load ratio share basis, where load ratio share is equal to: the sum of a Market

   Participant’s (i) withdrawals at Commercial Nodes, excluding withdrawals associated with

   Carved-Out GFAs and (ii) Exports, divided by the sum of all withdrawals at commercial nodes

   (excluding withdrawals at commercial nodes with Carved-Out GFAs) and all Export Schedules

   for all applicable Market Participants in that Hour.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                    83.7
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                                30.0.0


   The billing and payment terms for this Part shall be as set forth in Section 7.20 of this Tariff.




                                                                         Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               83.7.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   When applicable, the Transmission Provider shall pay the Congestion Management Customer all

   sums due for each redispatch request, determined in accordance with Section 83.3 and Section

   83.4 above. Within twelve (12) calendar days of each redispatch event, the Congestion

   Management Customer shall provide an invoice showing the hours, and the costs incurred by

   Congestion Management Customer during each hour, and any other costs (including the

   Transmission Provider’s energy market and transmission charges described in Sections 83.4.4.1

   and 83.4.4.2) to comply with a redispatch request under this Part. Failure to provide the invoice

   within the twelve day period will not excuse, but may delay, payments due to the Congestion

   Management Customer until the next scheduled settlement period.

   Purchases of energy by the Congestion Management Customer from the Transmission Provider

   under Section 83.4.1 of this Part, redispatch costs incurred by the Congestion Management

   Customer under Section 83.5 of this Part, and Market Participant charges normally billed to the

   Congestion Management Customer, will be netted against sums owing to the Congestion

   Management Customer for redispatch service under this Part. The Transmission Provider will

   invoice or pay the Congestion Management Customer the net amount owed or credited for all

   energy purchases and other Congestion Management Customer Market Participant charges,

   pursuant to the terms and conditions of Section 7.20 of this Tariff.




                                                                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                83.7.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   All net settlements owing to the Congestion Management Customer shall be due and payable by

   the Transmission Provider pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Tariff, whether or not a

   Party disputes all or any portion of the amount owing to the Congestion Management Customer

   for redispatch service under this Part. Payment or acceptance of disputed amounts shall not be a

   waiver of a party’s right to challenge the correctness of that amount, or to pursue dispute

   resolution process of the Tariff including Commission review of the correctness of such

   amounts. Net settlements owing to the Transmission Provider shall be due and payable pursuant

   to the terms and conditions of Section 7.20 of this Tariff.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               83.7.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   As to a Congestion Management Customer to which Section 12E of this Tariff is applicable, the

   obligation to make the payments under this Section is subordinate and junior in all respects to the

   obligation of the Congestion Management Customer to pay the principal and interest on its

   bonds.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                     84
FERC Electric Tariff   Coordinated Operations and Planning
MODULES                                              30.0.0




                          Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                84.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer acknowledge that voltage

   control and reactive power coordination are essential to maintain reliability. Therefore, the

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall establish procedures

   (“Voltage and Reactive Power Coordination Procedures”) by which their respective Reliability

   Coordinators shall conduct such coordination.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 84.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will perform regional

   transmission and generation outage coordination in order to identify proposed transmission and

   generation maintenance that would create unacceptable reliability-related system conditions and

   will work with the facility owners to provide remedial steps to be taken in advance of such

   proposed maintenance.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                               84.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                           30.0.0


   The objectives of the planning coordination process are to make certain that appropriate and

   adequate reviews of transmission planning functions are performed between the Transmission

   Provider and the Congestion Management Customer on a collaborative basis to ensure

   comparability, efficiency and timeliness. The Transmission Provider and the Congestion

   Management Customer shall coordinate their planning processes by exchanging planning

   information required under this Part, and through joint cooperation between their respective

   Planning Authorities, as set forth in Attachment FF of the Tariff.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  84.4
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall make transmission

   capacity available within their transmission systems for generation reserve sharing. Subject to

   any applicable Commission rules, regulations or orders, the Transmission Provider and the

   Congestion Management Customer shall reserve the required TRM, or its equivalent, for its

   generation reserve sharing pool requirements. The party responsible for making transmission

   capacity available for the reserve sharing obligation shall bear the costs of any redispatch

   required to make the transmission capacity available.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                85
FERC Electric Tariff                Service Agreement
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              85.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider shall offer a standard form Service Agreement for Interconnected

   Operations and Congestion Management Services to the entity eligible to receive the

   Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service. Executed Service Agreements

   that contain the information required under this Part shall be filed with the Commission in

   compliance with applicable Commission regulations. The standard form of Service Agreement

   for Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Services is provided in Attachment

   KK-2 to this Tariff.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   85.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall cooperate in good

   faith in making any filings before the Commission that may be required to implement the terms

   of this Part or any applicable Service Agreement or to facilitate their effective dates. Whenever

   practicable, such filings shall be made simultaneously with each other.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                               86
FERC Electric Tariff                          Records
MODULES                                        30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   86.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall keep complete and

   accurate records relating to the performance of their respective obligations, as well as any

   calculations necessary in the performance of such obligations, under this Part and shall maintain

   such data as may be necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that their performance, or

   calculations in support of such performance, conforms to the standards set forth in this Part,

   including, but not limited to, data supporting the calculation of TTC, TRM, ATC/AFC, and RCF

   allocations.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  86.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   The Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer shall maintain the

   complete and accurate records required by Section 86.1 for a period of one year from the end of

   the fiscal year during which the obligations were performed. Within that one year period, either

   the Transmission Provider or the Congestion Management Customer may request in writing

   copies of the records of the other party to the extent reasonably necessary to verify that the

   performance, or calculations in support of such performance, conforms to this Part. The costs of

   the data review, including costs related to retrieving, compiling, reproducing and analyzing any

   data requested pursuant to this provision shall be borne by the party making the request.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             86.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                         30.0.0


   Any access to the Transmission Provider’s books and records shall be subject to applicable

   confidentiality and CEII requirements and procedures, as may be provided in the Tariff or

   Commission rules, regulations or orders.




                                                                     Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                87
FERC Electric Tariff             Revenue Distribution.
MODULES                                         30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                             87.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                        30.0.0


   Nothing in this Part II shall be interpreted to modify any prior agreement between the

   Transmission Provider and the Transmission Owners regarding revenue distribution.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                              87.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                          30.0.0


   For any charges not invoiced pursuant to Section 83.7 of this Tariff, the Congestion Management

   Customer shall render invoices to the Transmission Provider for amounts due in accordance with

   the Congestion Management Customer Customer’s customary billing practices and payment

   shall be due in accordance with the Congestion Management Customer Customer’s customary

   payment requirements. All payments shall be made in immediately available funds payable to

   the Congestion Management Customer by wire transfer pursuant to instructions set out by the

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer from time to time. Interest on

   any amounts not paid when due shall be calculated in accordance with the methodology specified

   for interest on refunds in the Commission’s regulations at 18 C.F.R. § 35.19a(a)(2)(iii).




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                 88
FERC Electric Tariff           Effective Date and Term
MODULES                                          30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                 88.1
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                            30.0.0


   The initial term of the Interconnected Operations and Congestion Management Service shall be

   for a period of three (3) years after the effective date of the Service Agreement executed pursuant

   to Section 85 and Attachment KK-2 of this Tariff. The Service Agreement shall automatically

   renew thereafter for successive one (1) year terms unless written notice of termination is

   provided not less than one year prior to the end of the initial or any subsequent term. The

   Service Agreement shall also terminate and cease to be effective upon the mutual agreement by

   the parties to terminate the Service Agreement or upon Commission order terminating the

   Service Agreement. The effective date of the Service Agreement shall be the date set forth

   therein or any other date as may be established by the Commission.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                   88.2
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                              30.0.0


   A Congestion Management Customer to which Section 12E of this Tariff applies may terminate

   its Service Agreement executed pursuant to Section 85 and Attachment KK-2 of this Tariff at

   any time during the initial term or any extension thereof with less than the required one-year

   notice, in the event that the statutes governing such Congestion Management Customer, or any

   provisions of this Part II of Module F, or the provisions of the Transmission Provider’s Tariff

   incorporated by reference in this Part II Module F, are changed or modified, in a manner that

   causes a conflict with state law, regulations, or rate schedules and the review process described

   in Section 12E of this Tariff is unable to resolve such conflict.




                                                                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                                  88.3
FERC Electric Tariff
MODULES                                                                                             30.0.0


   Upon written notice to the Transmission Provider that Congestion Management Customer is

   exercising its right to terminate its Service Agreement under Section 88.2 of this Tariff, the

   Transmission Provider and the Congestion Management Customer will work in good faith to

   make all required arrangements to resume as soon as possible, but not to exceed thirty (30) days

   from such written notice, all normal operating conditions and provide transmission service on

   their respective systems without regard to the requirements of this Part II.




                                                                        Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                     MODULE G
FERC Electric Tariff                    [RESERVED]
MODULES                                       30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                              3
FERC Electric Tariff                    SCHEDULES
SCHEDULES                                    30.0.0




                       Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Scheduling, System Control And Dispatch Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                       31.0.0


                                            SCHEDULE 1

                         Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service

   I.     GENERAL

          Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service associated with the Transmission

   Provider is to be provided directly by the Transmission Provider except in the case of ITC

   Service, Scheduling System Control and Redispatch Service may, at the election of the ITC, be

   provided by the ITC in accordance with the ITC Control Area Service and Operations Tariff.

   This service is required to schedule the movement of power through, out of, within or into the

   MISO Balancing Authority Area and is provided by Transmission Owners that operate control

   centers and record costs to provide this service in FERC Account Nos. 561.1 through 561.3. To

   the extent the Transmission Owners perform this service for the Transmission Provider, the

   charges collected under this Schedule shall represent a pass-through of the costs incurred by the

   Transmission Owners. The Transmission Customer must purchase this service from the

   Transmission Provider, or, as applicable the ITC.

   II.    RATES

          A.      Service under this Schedule 1 for transactions that sink in Transmission Provider

   zones, which are the zones listed in Schedules 7, 8 and 9, shall be charged the zonal rate as

   established for the Transmission Owner or ITC that is providing the Schedule 1 service in the

   zone where the transaction sinks using the formula set forth below. Amounts to be recovered

   under this Schedule 1 shall not include any amounts recovered pursuant to Schedule 24 including

   amounts shown in any separate sub-account to Account No. 561 established pursuant to

   Schedule 24-A to Schedule 24 of this Tariff. The annual rate for this service will be calculated




                                                                             Effective On: April 23, 2014
MISO                                                                                            SCHEDULE 1
FERC Electric Tariff                                            Scheduling, System Control And Dispatch Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                                31.0.0


   as follows:


                                                      (1+2-3) divided by 4
   Where:

            1=       The sum of all costs booked to FERC Account Nos. 561.1, 561.2, and 561.3 for

                     the Transmission Owner or ITC providing Schedule 1 service (or the equivalent

                     account(s) for Transmission Owners or ITCs that do not use FERC Account Nos.

                     561.1, 561.2, and 561.3) in the prior calendar or fiscal year in the case of

                     Attachment O historical rate templates or, in the case of forward-looking

                     Attachment O projected cost rate templates, estimates of such costs subject to

                     true-up procedures provided in Section II.D of this Schedule 1.

            2=       True-up Adjustment calculated in accordance with procedures in Section II.D if

                     applicable.

            3=       Revenue collected by the Transmission Owner or ITC under this Schedule 1 for

                     firm transactions of less than one year, all non-firm transactions, and any other

                     transactions whose loads are not included in the Attachment O Zonal Rate Divisor

                     for the zone.

            4=       The Attachment O Zonal Rate Divisor for the zone (the divisor used for

                     Schedules 7, 8 and 9 Zonal Rates).1
   1
            Loads that are included in the Attachment O Zonal Rate Divisor for the NSP Companies' pricing zone

   (zone 16), but are located in the OTP load balancing area and are charged the applicable OTP pricing zone (zone 18)

   Schedule 1 rate, shall be excluded from the zone 16 Schedule 1 rate divisor and included in the zone 18 Schedule 1

   rate divisor for purposes of calculating the Schedule 1 rates in zones 16 and 18 unless and until agreement is reached

   as set forth in Section II Part D below.




                                                                                          Effective On: April 23, 2014
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Scheduling, System Control And Dispatch Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                       31.0.0


  On Peak:
              Annual Rate        Annual Rate calculated above
              Monthly Rate       Annual Rate divided by 12
              Weekly Rate        Annual Rate divided by 52
              Daily Rate         Annual Rate divided by 260         capped at weekly rate
              Hourly Rate        Annual Rate divided by 4160        capped at daily rates
  Off Peak:
              Daily Rate         Annual Rate divided by 365
              Hourly Rate        Annual Rate divided by 8760


            B.     Service under this Schedule 1 for Drive-Out and Drive-Through Transmission

   Service transactions shall be at a single, system-wide rate calculated as set forth below.

   Amounts to be recovered under this Schedule 1 shall not include any amounts recovered

   pursuant to Schedule 24 including amounts shown in any separate sub-account to Account No.

   561 established pursuant to Schedule 24-A to Schedule 24 of this Tariff. The annual rate for this

   service will be calculated as follows:

                                  (5+6-7) divided by 8

   Where:

            5=     The sum of all costs booked to FERC Account Nos. 561.1, 561.2, and 561.3

                   reported by each Transmission Owner and ITC providing Schedule 1 service (or

                   the equivalent account(s) for Transmission Owners and ITCs that do not use

                   FERC Account Nos. 561.1, 561.2, and 561.3) in the prior calendar or fiscal year

                   in the case of Attachment O historical rate templates or, in the case of forward-

                   looking Attachment O projected cost rate templates, estimates of such costs

                   subject to true-up procedures provided in Section II.D of this Schedule 1.




                                                                             Effective On: April 23, 2014
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 1
FERC Electric Tariff                                   Scheduling, System Control And Dispatch Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                       31.0.0


          6=       The sum of all True-up Adjustments calculated in accordance with procedures in

                   Section II.D if applicable.

          7=       Revenues collected by each Transmission Owner and ITC under this Schedule 1

                   for firm transactions of less than one year, all non-firm transactions, and any other

                   transactions whose loads are not included in the Divisor on Page 1 of Attachment

                   O for Drive-Out and Drive-Through Transmission Service.

          8=       The Divisor on Page 1 of Attachment O for Drive-Out and Drive-Through

                   Transmission Service rates (the divisor used for Schedules 7 and 8 Drive-Out and

                   Drive-Through Rates).

  On Peak:
              Annual Rate        Annual Rate calculated above
              Monthly Rate       Annual Rate divided by 12
              Weekly Rate        Annual Rate divided by 52
              Daily Rate         Annual Rate divided by 260          capped at weekly rate
              Hourly Rate        Annual Rate divided by 4160         capped at daily rates
  Off Peak:
              Daily Rate         Annual Rate divided by 365
              Hourly Rate        Annual Rate divided by 8760


          C.       Rates calculated pursuant to Schedule 1, Sections II.A and II.B, shall be

   calculated and put into effect on January 1 and June 1 of each year in concert with Attachment O

   rate updates.

          D.       To the extent a Transmission Owner or ITC that provides Schedule 1 service and

   receives Schedule 1 revenues: (1) uses a forward-looking Attachment O formula rate and (2)

   also uses projected costs to derive its costs for determining the Schedule 1 rate, the Transmission




                                                                              Effective On: April 23, 2014
MISO                                                                                         SCHEDULE 1
FERC Electric Tariff                                         Scheduling, System Control And Dispatch Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                             31.0.0


   Owner or ITC will use the same procedures with respect to its Schedule 1 costs and revenues to

   calculate a Schedule 1 true-up, for receiving under-recoveries and returning over-recoveries to

   Transmission Customers, consistent with its Attachment O true-up procedures.2
   2
          The initial Schedule 1 true-up calculation will commence with the 2013 rate year.

   III.   CHARGES

          The charges for Transmission Customers taking Point-To-Point Transmission Service

   including Drive-Out and Drive-Through Transmission Service under Module B of the Tariff

   shall be calculated by multiplying the appropriate rate calculated in Section II.A for Point-To-

   Point Transmission Service sinking in MISO or Section II.B for Drive-Out and Drive-Through

   Transmission Service above by each megawatt of Reserved Capacity.

          Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 37.3 of this Tariff, the charges for

   Transmission Customers taking Network Integration Transmission Service under Module B of

   the Tariff shall be calculated by multiplying the zonal Monthly Rate calculated in Section II.A

   above by each megawatt of Network Load determined in accordance with Section 34.2 of the

   Tariff. To the extent that there is more than one Transmission Owner in a zone and there is

   agreement between the host zone Transmission Owner and another Transmission Owner(s) that

   Schedule 1 service is being self-provided by the non-host Transmission Owner(s) with respect to

   some or all loads, the non-host Transmission Owner(s) shall not be billed for Schedule 1 service

   for those loads and the Schedule 1 zonal rate divisors shall be adjusted to account for the self-

   provision of Schedule 1 service for those loads.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, charges for ITC Service shall be governed by the

   applicable ITC Control Area Service and Operations Tariff.




                                                                                       Effective On: April 23, 2014
MISO                                                                                  SCHEDULE 1
FERC Electric Tariff                                  Scheduling, System Control And Dispatch Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                      31.0.0


   IV.    ALLOCATION OF SCHEDULE 1 REVENUES

          The Transmission Provider shall pass through the revenues it receives pursuant to this

   Schedule 1 for transactions that sink in the MISO zones to the Transmission Owner or ITC

   providing the zonal Schedule 1 service where the transaction sinks.

          Except in the case of ITC Service, which shall be governed by the ITC's Control Area

   Services and Operations Tariff, the Transmission Provider shall distribute the revenues it

   receives pursuant to Schedule 1 in connection with Drive-Out and Drive-Through Transmission

   Service to the Transmission Owners and ITCs that provide Schedule 1 service in accordance

   with the revenue distribution provisions in Appendix C, Section III of the ISO Agreement.

   These Schedule 1 revenues shall be considered the same as base transmission charge revenues

   (i.e., Schedules 7 and 8 revenues) for revenue distribution purposes, except revenue distribution

   to an ITC shall be limited to the portion of revenues associated with transactions under this Tariff

   that do not take place under the applicable ITC's Rate Schedule.

          Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of ITC Service, such service may be governed

   by the ITC Control Area Services and Operations Tariff. Revenue distribution under this

   schedule to an ITC shall be limited to the portion of revenues associated with transactions under

   this Tariff that do not take place under the applicable ITC’s Rate Schedule.




                                                                             Effective On: April 23, 2014
MISO                                                                             SCHEDULE 1-HVDC
FERC Electric Tariff                      High-Voltage Direct Current Scheduling, System Control and D
SCHEDULES                                                                                        31.0.0


                                          SCHEDULE 1-HVDC

        High-Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service

   I.        GENERAL



             Scheduling, System Control and Dispatch Service over HVDC Facilities is to be provided

   directly by the Transmission Provider, except in the case of ITC Service. Scheduling, System

   Control and Dispatch Service may, at the election of the ITC, be provided by the ITC in

   accordance with the ITC Control Area Service and Operations Tariff. This service is required to

   schedule the movement of power through HVDC Facilities, out of, within or into the MISO

   Balancing Authority Area and is provided by the operators of the Local Balancing Authority

   Area(s) of the Transmission Provider. To the extent the Local Balancing Authorities perform

   this service to the Transmission Provider, the charges collected under this Schedule shall

   represent a pass-through of the costs incurred by the Local Balancing Authorities. The

   Transmission Customer must purchase this service from the Transmission Provider, or, as

   applicable, the ITC.

   II.       RATES

             Service under this Schedule shall be at a single, HVDC Facilities rate for each Pricing

   Zone that contains HVDC Facilities. Amounts to be recovered under this Schedule shall not

   include any amounts recovered pursuant to Schedules 1 and 24 including amounts shown in any

   separate sub-account to Account No. 561 established pursuant to Schedule 24-A to Schedule 24

   of this Tariff. The annual rate for this service will be calculated by Pricing Zone as follows:


                                             (1-2) divided by 3




                                                                         Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                             SCHEDULE 1-HVDC
FERC Electric Tariff                      High-Voltage Direct Current Scheduling, System Control and D
SCHEDULES                                                                                        31.0.0


   Where:

            1      =       The sum of all costs booked to FERC Account Nos. 561.1, 561.2, and
                           561.3 applicable to each specific HVDC Facilities for the Transmission
                           Owners and ITCs (or the equivalent account(s) for Coordinating Owners,
                           Transmission Owners, and ITCs that do not use FERC Account Nos.
                           561.1, 561.2, and 561.3) in the prior calendar or fiscal year1.
            2      =       The sum of all charges under this Schedule assessed to firm transactions of
                           less than one year, all non-firm transactions, and any other transactions
                           whose loads are not included in the Divisor on Page 1 of Attachment O for
                           Drive-Out and Drive-Through Transmission Service.
            3      =       The HVDC Facilities Divisor on Page 1 of Attachment O of the applicable
                           Transmission Owner.
            Such rate shall be calculated and put into effect on June 1 of each year, based on data for

   the prior calendar year.

   III.     CHARGES

            The charges for Transmission Customers taking HVDC Service under Section 27A of the

   Tariff shall be calculated by multiplying the appropriate rate calculated above by each megawatt

   of Reserved Capacity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, charges for ITC Service shall be

   governed by the applicable ITC Control Area Service and Operations Tariff.

   IV.      ALLOCATION OF SCHEDULE 1-HVDC REVENUES

            Except in the case of ITC Service, which shall be governed by the ITC Control Area

   Services and Operations Tariff, Schedule 1-HVDC revenues shall be distributed pursuant to the

   revenue distribution provisions in Appendix C, Section III of the ISO Agreement.




                                                                         Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                          SCHEDULE 1-HVDC
FERC Electric Tariff                   High-Voltage Direct Current Scheduling, System Control and D
SCHEDULES                                                                                     31.0.0




   1
          Costs booked to a sub-account to Account No. 561 pursuant to Schedule 24 shall not be

          included in the sum of all costs booked to Account No. 561 for the purposes of this

          formula.




                                                                     Effective On: December 20, 2013
MISO                                                                                  SCHEDULE 2
FERC Electric Tariff                     Reactive Supply and Voltage Control From Generation or Other
SCHEDULES                                                                                      41.0.0


                                             SCHEDULE 2

                             Reactive Supply And Voltage Control From
                                Generation or Other Sources Service


   I.     GENERAL

          In order to maintain transmission voltages on the Transmission Provider’s transmission

   facilities within acceptable limits, resources capable of providing this service that are connected

   to the Transmission Provider’s transmission facilities are operated to produce or absorb reactive

   power. Thus, service under this Schedule 2 - Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from

   Generation or Other Sources Service must be provided for each transaction on the Transmission

   System. The amount of Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources

   Service that must be supplied with respect to the Transmission Customer’s transaction will be

   determined by the Transmission Provider based on the reactive power support necessary to

   maintain transmission voltages within the voltage range and the resulting reactive power range

   that are generally accepted in the region and consistently adhered to by the Transmission

   Provider.

          Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation or Other Sources Service is to be

   provided by the Transmission Provider by making arrangements with the Transmission

   Operator(s) that acquires this service for the Transmission Provider’s Transmission System,

   except that, in the case of ITC Reactive Supply and Voltage Control from Generation Sources

   Service, the service may, at the election of the ITC, be acquired by the ITC in accordance with

   the ITC Control Area Services and Operations Tariff and the standards for qualification of

   generation resources (not necessarily “Generation Resources”) set out in this Schedule 2. The




                                                                            Effective On: March 29, 2025
MISO                                                                                 SCHEDULE 2
FERC Electric Tariff                    Reactive Supply and Voltage Control From Generation or Other
SCHEDULES                                                                                     41.0.0


   Transmission Customer must purchase this service from the Transmission Provider or from the

   ITC, as appropriate.

          However, there will be no charges associated with compensation to a generation resource

   for the supply of reactive power within the power factor range specified in its interconnection

   agreement or in the Operating Protocol for Existing Generators, MISO Rate Schedule 4, if

   applicable.




                                                                           Effective On: March 29, 2025
MISO                             SCHEDULE 2-A
FERC Electric Tariff               [RESERVED]
SCHEDULES                                32.0.0




                       Effective On: March 1, 2015
MISO                                                                                     SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                        39.0.0


                                            SCHEDULE 3

                                     REGULATING RESERVE

   I.     GENERAL

          Regulating Reserve is necessary to i) continuously balance the total output of all

   Resources within the MISO Balancing Authority Area with the total demand of all loads

   (including losses) within the MISO Balancing Authority Area plus the Net Scheduled

   Interchange of the MISO Balancing Authority Area and ii) assist in maintaining the difference

   between scheduled Interconnection frequency and actual Interconnection frequency within

   acceptable limits based on Applicable Reliability Standards. Regulation Deployment is

   accomplished by using automatic control equipment to raise or lower the output of on-line

   Resources as necessary to follow the moment-by-moment changes in demand and frequency.

   The obligation to maintain this balance between supply and demand lies with the MISO

   Balancing Authority. The MISO Balancing Authority will procure this service on behalf of the

   Load Serving Entities from cleared Resource Offers submitted by Market Participants selected in

   the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets, as provided for in Sections 39.2 and 40.2 of this

   Tariff. A Load Serving Entity must purchase this service from the MISO Balancing Authority to

   satisfy its Regulating Reserve Obligation, where such Obligation is defined below. The MISO

   Balancing Authority will consider the speed and accuracy of Resources providing Regulating

   Reserve when determining required Regulating Reserve levels.

   II.    DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE

          Regulating Reserve is unloaded and loaded Resource capacity utilized by the MISO

   Balancing Authority to manage the area control error as necessary to comply with Applicable




                                                                              Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                      39.0.0


   Reliability Standards. Regulating Reserve is cleared and priced every Hour in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market and every Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market. Regulating Reserve is settled on an Hourly basis in the Day-Ahead

   Energy and Operating Reserve Market, and every Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Market. Regulating Reserve can only be supplied by Regulation Qualified

   Resources.

   III.   PURCHASE OBLIGATIONS WITHIN THE MISO BALANCING AUTHORITY

          AREA AND RATES

          Day-Ahead and Real-Time Regulating Reserve procurement costs are collected from

   Load Serving Entities on a zonal basis using the following rate methodology:

          A.     Binding Settlement Zone Regulating Reserve Charges

          Market Participants, and Carved-Out GFA billing entities associated with Carved-Out

   GFAs, with Actual Energy Withdrawals within a Binding Settlement Zone shall be charged each

   Hour, a pro-rata share of the total payments to Market Participants (“MP”) for Resources

   providing Regulating Reserve within that Binding Settlement Zone for that Hour as follows:

   Costs allocated to Carved-Out GFAs:

          Carved-Out GFA Regulating Reserve Charge = GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement

                                                      and Mileage Rate multiplied by MP Carved-

                                                      Out GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal minus

                                                      the applicable Day Ahead Ex Post MCP for

                                                      Regulating Reserve or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                                                      Post MCP for Regulating Reserve multiplied




                                                                            Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       39.0.0


                                                       by the Minimum of [Regulating Reserve

                                                       schedules associated with the Carved-Out

                                                       GFA, and the MP Carved-Out GFA

                                                       Regulating Reserve Obligation] for the

                                                       Binding Settlement Zone,

   Where:

            GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Rate = Regulating Reserve

                                                       Procurement and Mileage Cost / Total

                                                       Actual Energy Withdrawal in the Non-

                                                       Binding Settlement Zone;

            Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Cost = The sum of all credits calculated

                                                       under Section 39.3.2A.a plus the sum of all

                                                       charges/credits calculated under Section

                                                       40.3.3.3.b.ii specific to Resources providing

                                                       Regulating Reserve within the Binding

                                                       Settlement Zone;

            MP Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal = Market Participant Actual Energy

                                                       Withdrawal, associated with Carved-Out

                                                       GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal and

                                                       excluding real-time Export Schedules,

                                                       within the Binding Settlement Zone;




                                                                             Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                   39.0.0


            Total Actual Energy Withdrawal =        The sum of all Market Participant Actual

                                                    Energy Withdrawals, including Carved-Out

                                                    GFA Actual Energy Withdrawals and

                                                    excluding real-time Export Schedules,

                                                    within the Binding Settlement Zone; and

            MP Carved-Out GFA Regulating Reserve Obligation = MP Carved-Out GFA Actual

                                                    Energy Withdrawal divided by Total Actual

                                                    Energy Withdrawal within the Binding

                                                    Settlement Zone multiplied by the sum of all

                                                    Regulating Reserve schedules within the

                                                    Binding Settlement Zone.

   Costs allocated to Non-GFA Withdrawals:

            Regulating Reserve Charge non-GFA =     Non-GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement

                                                    and Mileage Rate * MP Actual Energy

                                                    Withdrawal for the Non-Binding Settlement

                                                    Zone,

   Where:

            Non-GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Rate = The difference between

                                                    the Non-GFA Regulating Reserve

                                                    Procurement and Mileage Cost and the

                                                    aggregate sum of all Carved-Out GFA

                                                    Regulating Reserve Charges divided by




                                                                         Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                   39.0.0


                                                   Total Actual Non-GFA Energy Withdrawals

                                                   within the Binding Settlement Zone;

          Non-GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Cost = The sum of all credits

                                                   calculated under Section 39.3.2A.a plus the

                                                   sum of all charges/credits calculated under

                                                   Section 40.3.3.3.b.ii specific to Resources

                                                   providing Regulating Reserve minus the

                                                   aggregate sum of the applicable Day Ahead

                                                   Ex Post MCP for Regulating Reserve or

                                                   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCP for

                                                   Regulating Reserve multiplied by the

                                                   Minimum of [Regulating Reserve schedules

                                                   associated with the Carved-Out GFA, and

                                                   the MP Carved-Out GFA Regulating

                                                   Reserve Obligation] for all GFA billing

                                                   entities within the Binding Settlement Zone;

          MP Actual Energy Withdrawal =                Market Participant Actual Energy

                                                       Withdrawal, excluding Carved-Out GFA

                                                       Actual Energy Withdrawal and

                                                       excluding real-time Export Schedules,

                                                       within the Binding Settlement Zone; and




                                                                         Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       39.0.0


         Total Actual Non-GFA Energy Withdrawals =        The sum of all Market Participant Actual

                                                          Energy Withdrawals, excluding Carved-

                                                          Out GFA Actual Energy Withdrawals

                                                          and excluding real-time Export

                                                          Schedules, within the Binding

                                                          Settlement Zone.

          B.     Non-Binding Settlement Zone Regulating Reserve Charge

          Market Participants, other than Carved-Out GFA billing entities associated with Carved-

   Out GFAs, with Actual Energy Withdrawals within a Non-Binding Settlement Zone shall be

   charged each Hour, a pro-rata share of the total payments to Market Participants for Resources

   providing Regulating Reserve within that Non-Binding Settlement Zone for that Hour as follows:

   Costs allocated to Carved-Out GFAs:

   Carved-Out GFA Regulating Reserve Charge =          GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement and

                                                       Mileage Rate multiplied by the MP Carved-

                                                       Out GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal minus

                                                       the applicable Day Ahead Ex Post MCP for

                                                       Regulating Reserve or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                                                       Post MCP for Regulating Reserve multiplied

                                                       by the Minimum of [Regulating Reserve

                                                       schedules associated with the Carved-Out

                                                       GFA, and the MP Carved-Out GFA




                                                                             Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                               Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                      39.0.0


                                                      Regulating Reserve Obligation] for the Non-

                                                      Binding Settlement Zone,

   Where:

            GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement Rate =         Regulating Reserve Procurement and

                                                      Mileage Cost / Total Actual Energy

                                                      Withdraw in the Non-Binding Settlement

                                                      Zone;

            Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Cost = The sum of all credits calculated

                                                      under Section 39.3.2A.a plus the sum of all

                                                      charges/credits calculated under Section

                                                      40.3.3.3.b.ii specific to Resources providing

                                                      Regulating Reserve within the Non-Binding

                                                      Settlement Zone;

            MP Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal = Market Participant Actual Energy

                                                      Withdrawal, associated with Carved-Out

                                                      GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal and

                                                      excluding real-time Export Schedules,

                                                      within the Non-Binding Settlement Zone;

            Total Actual Energy Withdrawal =          The sum of all Market Participant Actual

                                                      Energy Withdrawals, including Carved-Out

                                                      GFA Actual Energy Withdrawals and

                                                      excluding real-time Export Schedules,




                                                                            Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                   39.0.0


                                                    within the Non-Binding Settlement Zone;

                                                    and

            MP Carved-Out GFA Regulating Reserve Obligation = MP Carved-Out GFA Actual

                                                    Energy Withdrawal divided by Total Actual

                                                    Energy Withdrawal within the Binding

                                                    Settlement Zone multiplied by the sum of all

                                                    Regulating Reserve schedules within the

                                                    Non-Binding Settlement Zone.

   Costs allocated to Non-GFA Withdrawals:

            Regulating Reserve Charge non-GFA =     Non-GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement

                                                    and Mileage Rate * MP Actual Energy

                                                    Withdrawal for the Non-Binding Settlement

                                                    Zone,

   Where:

            Non-GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Rate =     the difference

                                                    between the Non-GFA Regulating Reserve

                                                    Procurement and Mileage Cost and the

                                                    aggregate sum of all Carved-Out GFA

                                                    Regulating Reserve Charges divided by

                                                    Total Actual Non-GFA Energy Withdrawals

                                                    within the Non-Binding Settlement Zone;




                                                                         Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                            Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                   39.0.0


          Non-GFA Regulating Reserve Procurement and Mileage Cost = The sum of all credits

                                                   calculated under Section 39.3.2A.a plus the

                                                   sum of all charges/credits calculated under

                                                   Section 40.3.3.3.b.ii specific to Resources

                                                   providing Regulating Reserve minus the

                                                   aggregate sum of the applicable Day Ahead

                                                   Ex Post MCP for Regulating Reserve or

                                                   Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCP for

                                                   Regulating Reserve multiplied by the

                                                   Minimum of [Regulating Reserve schedules

                                                   associated with the Carved-Out GFA, and

                                                   the MP Carved-Out GFA Regulating

                                                   Reserve Obligation] for all GFA billing

                                                   entities within the Non-Binding Settlement

                                                   Zone;

          MP Actual Energy Withdrawal =            Market Participant Actual Energy

                                                   Withdrawal, excluding Carved-Out GFA

                                                   Actual Energy Withdrawal and excluding

                                                   real-time Export Schedules, within the Non-

                                                   Binding Settlement Zone; and

          Total Actual Non-GFA Energy Withdrawals = The sum of all Market Participant Actual

                                                   Energy Withdrawals, excluding Carved-Out




                                                                         Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       39.0.0


                                                        GFA Actual Energy Withdrawals and

                                                        excluding real-time Export Schedules,

                                                        within the Non-Binding Settlement Zone;

   IV.    PROVISIONS TO SATISFY REGULATING RESERVE OBLIGATIONS VIA

          SELF-SCHEDULES

          A Market Participant may Self-Schedule from their Regulation Qualified Resources in

   the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets to meet their hourly Market-Wide Regulating

   Reserve Obligation. A Market Participant’s hourly Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Obligation

   shall be equal to the Market-Wide Regulating Reserve Requirement multiplied by the ratio of the

   Market Participant’s Actual Energy Withdrawals, excluding real-time Export Schedules, to

   MISO Balancing Authority Load, excluding real-time Export Schedules. Such Self-Scheduled

   Regulating Reserve shall be compensated at the applicable Regulating Reserve Market Clearing

   Price for that Resource pursuant to Sections 39 and 40 of this Tariff.

   V.     UNDEPLOYED REGULATING MILEAGE REVENUE SUFFICIENCY

          GUARANTEE CREDIT

          The Regulation Reserve Credit specified in Section 40.3.3.3.b.ii includes the Undeployed

   Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit. The Undeployed Regulating Mileage

   Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit consists of a Day-Ahead and a Real-Time component

   calculated as follows:

          Step 1: For each Dispatch Interval with non-zero Undeployed Regulating Mileage, the

   Undeployed Regulating Mileage is split into the amount attributed to Day-Ahead and the amount

   attributed to Real-Time, calculated as follows:




                                                                             Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       39.0.0


           UndeployedRegMileage_DA_NoSSt=

                       max [0, UndeployedRegMileaget – RegMilDeplRatio* max(ClrRegtRT -

   ClrReghDA, 0)]

           UndeployedRegMileage_DAt=

                  Min{ RegMilDeplRatio* max(0, ClrReghDA – SSReghDA),

                       UndeployedRegMileage_DA_NoSSt }

           UndeployedRegMileage_RTt =

                  Min{ RegMilDeplRatio*max(0, ClrRegtRT – SSRegtRT),

                       UndeployedRegMileaget - UndeployedRegMileage_DA_NoSSt}

   Where

           RegMilDeplRatio = Market-wide Regulating Mileage Deployment Ratio

           ClrReghDA =    Day-Ahead Schedule for Regulating Reserve for hour h.

           SSReghDA = Day-Ahead Self Schedule for Regulating Reserve for Hour h.

           ClrRegtRT =    Real-Time Dispatch Target for Regulating Reserve for Interval t.

           SSReghRT = Real-Time Self Schedule for Regulating Reserve for Hour h.

           UndeployedRegMileaget = Undeployed Regulating Mileage for Dispatch Interval t.

           UndeployedRegMileage_DA_NoSSt = Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Day-

           Ahead for Dispatch Interval t under no Day-Ahead Self Schedule for Regulating Reserve

           at the Hour.

           UndeployedRegMileage_DAt = Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Day-Ahead

           for Dispatch Interval t.




                                                                             Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       39.0.0


          UndeployedRegMileage_RTt = Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Real-Time

          for Dispatch Interval t.

          Step 2: If the Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Day-Ahead is zero in

   Dispatch Interval t, the Day-Ahead component of the Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue

   Sufficient Guarantee Credit for that Dispatch Interval t is zero. For Resources with non-zero

   Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Day-Ahead in any Dispatch Interval t in an Hour h,

   the Day-Ahead component of the Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee

   Credit is calculated as:

          (Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit)hDA =

                Max{0, (DA Profit Loss from Undeployed Regulating Mileage)hDA

                        - (DA Net Positive Energy and Operating Reserve Margin)hDA}

   The Day-Ahead profit loss from Undeployed Regulating Mileage in Hour h is calculated as:

         (DA Profit Loss from Undeployed Regulating Mileage)hDA =

          Max{0, ∑t in h [(RegMileageMCPtRT- RegMileageOfferhDA)*UndeployedRegMileage_DAt]}

       Where:

            RegMileageMCPtRT = the Ex Post MCP for Regulating Mileage for Dispatch Interval t.

            RegMileageOfferhDA = Day-Ahead Regulating Mileage Offer for Hour h.

           UndeployedRegMileage_DAt = Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Day-

          Ahead for Dispatch Interval t.

   The Day-Ahead net positive Energy and Operating Reserve margin is equal to:

        (DA Net Positive Energy and Operating Reserve Margin)hDA =




                                                                             Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       39.0.0


           Max{0, (revenue received in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve Market for

           Day-Ahead Schedules for Energy in Hour h) + (revenue received in the Day-Ahead

           Energy and Operating Reserve Market for Day-Ahead Schedules for Operating Reserves

           in Hour h) - (Energy Offer cost for the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy in Hour h) –

           (Operating Reserve Offer cost for Day-Ahead Schedules for Operating Reserves above

           the Self Schedule for the applicable Operating Reserves in Hour h) – (No Load Offer cost

           and prorated Start Up Offer cost in Hour h for Resources eligible for Day-Ahead

           Revenue Sufficiency Guarantee Credit)}

           Step 3: If the Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Real-Time is zero in Dispatch

   Interval t, the Real-Time component of the Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient

   Guarantee Credit for that Dispatch Interval is zero. For Resources with non-zero Undeployed

   Regulating Mileage attributed to Real-Time in any Dispatch Interval t in an Hour h, the Real-

   Time component of the Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee credit is

   calculated as:

           (Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit) hRT =

               Max{0, (RT Profit Loss from Undeployed Regulating Mileage)hRT

                       - (RT Net Positive Energy and Operating Reserve Margin)hRT}

   The Real-Time profit loss from Undeployed Regulating Mileage in Hour h is calculated as:

         (RT Profit Loss from Undeployed Regulating Mileage)hRT =

           Max{0, ∑t in h [(RegMileageMCPtRT- RegMileageOfferhRT)*UndeployedRegMileage_RTt}

   Where

            RegMileageMCPtRT = Ex Post MCP for Regulating Mileage for Dispatch Interval t.




                                                                             Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                  SCHEDULE 3
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Regulating Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                     39.0.0


           RegMileageOfferhRT = Real-Time Regulating Mileage Offer for Hour h.

           UndeployedRegMileage_RTt = Undeployed Regulating Mileage attributed to Real-Time

          for Dispatch Interval t.

   The Real-Time positive Energy and Operating Reserve margin in Hour h is calculated as:

         (RT Net Positive Energy and Operating Reserve Margin)hRT =

          Max{0, (revenue or charges in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market in

          Hour h resulting from differences between Non-Excessive Energy and the Day-Ahead

          Schedule for Energy) + (revenue or charges in the Real-Time Energy and Operating

          Reserve Market in Hour h resulting from differences between Dispatch Targets for

          Operating Reserves and Day-Ahead Schedules for Operating Reserve) - (Energy Offer

          cost reduction or increase resulting from differences between Non-Excessive Energy and

          the Day-Ahead Schedule for Energy) – (Operation Reserve Offer Cost reduction or

          increase in Hour h resulting from differences between Dispatch Targets for Operating

          Reserves and Day-Ahead Schedules for Operating Reserve adjusted for the Self Schedule

          for the applicable Operating Reserves) – (No Load Offer cost and prorated Start Up

          Offer cost in Hour h for Resources eligible for Real-Time Revenue Sufficiency

          Guarantee Credit)}.

                 Step 4: Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit in

          Hour h is the sum of the Day-Ahead component and the Real-Time component:

                 (Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit)h

                 =(Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit)hDA

                 + (Undeployed Regulating Mileage Revenue Sufficient Guarantee Credit)hRT




                                                                           Effective On: July 1, 2018
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 4
FERC Electric Tariff                                                          Energy Imbalance Service
SCHEDULES                                                                                       30.0.0


                                            SCHEDULE 4

                                ENERGY IMBALANCE SERVICE

          Energy Imbalance Service is provided when a difference occurs between the Energy

   scheduled in the Day-Ahead Energy Market and the actual delivery of Energy to a Load located

   within the MISO Balancing Authority Area over a single hour in the Real-Time Energy Market.

   The Transmission Provider shall offer this service when Transmission Service is used to serve

   Load within the Transmission Provider Region. Each Market Participant must purchase Energy

   Imbalance Service from the Transmission Provider. For purposes of Energy Imbalance Service,

   if a Point of Delivery serves more than one Market Participant, the Energy Imbalance Service

   and any associated charges will be computed by the Transmission Provider for the Point of

   Delivery and the allocation of the MWh charges for this service to the Market Participants shall

   be the responsibility of the designated Meter Data and Management Agent responsible for the

   Point of Delivery.

          For each Market Participant, Energy Imbalance Service is considered to be the difference

   between the Energy scheduled in the Day-Ahead Energy Market and the actual delivery of

   Energy to a Load within an Hour. The difference will be settled as a Real-Time Energy Market

   transaction and will be charged the hourly Locational Marginal Price determined pursuant to

   Module C, Section 40.2.11 of this Tariff in whole MWh.




                                                                      Effective On: November 19, 2013
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       37.0.0


                                           SCHEDULE 5
                                          Spinning Reserve

   I.     GENERAL

          Spinning Reserve is required to immediately offset deficiencies in Energy supply that

   result from a Resource contingency or other abnormal event. Spinning Reserve may be provided

   by Resources that are Spin Qualified Resources available to provide Spinning Reserve. The

   obligation to maintain this immediate response capability to contingency events lies with the

   MISO Balancing Authority. The MISO Balancing Authority will procure Spinning Reserve on

   behalf of the Load Serving Entities, and Exporting Entities from cleared Resource Offers

   submitted by Market Participants selected in the Energy and Operating Reserve Markets as

   provided for in Sections 39.2 and 40.2 of this Tariff. Load Serving Entities, and Exporting

   Entities must either purchase this service from the MISO Balancing Authority or make

   alternative comparable arrangements to satisfy its Spinning Reserve Obligation, where such

   Obligation is defined below. The MISO Balancing Authority shall determine whether alternative

   arrangements proposed by Load Serving Entities, and Exporting Entities are comparable to the

   provision of this service by the MISO Balancing Authority.

   II.    DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE

          Spinning Reserve is synchronized unloaded resource capacity set aside to be available to

   immediately offset abnormal supply deficiencies. Spinning Reserve must be immediately

   available and must be fully deployable within the Contingency Reserve Deployment Period.

   Spinning Reserve is a specified percentage of the Contingency Reserve requirements of the

   MISO Balancing Authority that must be provided by Spin Qualified Resources. Spinning

   Reserve is cleared and priced every Hour in the Day-Ahead Energy and Operating Reserve




                                                                          Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                    SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                  Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                       37.0.0


   Market and every Dispatch Interval in the Real-Time Energy and Operating Reserve Market.

   Spinning Reserve is settled on an hourly basis in both the Day-Ahead and Real-Time Energy and

   Operating Reserve Markets.

   III.   PURCHASE OBLIGATIONS WITHIN THE MISO BALANCING AUTHORITY

          AREA AND RATES

          Day-Ahead and Real-Time Spinning Reserve procurement costs are collected from Load

   Serving Entities and Exporting Entities on a zonal basis using the following rate methodology:

          A.     Binding Settlement Zone Spinning Reserve Charges

          Market Participants, and Carved-Out GFA billing entities associated with Carved-Out

   GFAs, with Actual Energy Withdrawals and real-time Export Schedules, other than Coordinated

   Transaction Schedules and Export Schedules for External Asynchronous Resources, within a

   Binding Settlement Zone shall be charged each Hour, a pro-rata share of the total payments to

   Market Participants for Resources providing Spinning Reserve within that Binding Settlement

   Zone for that Hour as follows:

   Costs allocated to Carved-Out GFAs:

          Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Charge = GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Rate

                                                       multiplied by the MP Carved-Out GFA

                                                       Actual Energy Withdrawal minus the

                                                       applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post MCP for

                                                       Spinning Reserve or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                                                       Post MCP for Spinning Reserve multiplied

                                                       by the Minimum of [Spinning Reserve




                                                                         Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                  SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                     37.0.0


                                                   schedules associated with the Carved-Out

                                                   GFA, and the MP Carved-Out GFA

                                                   Spinning Reserve Obligation] for the

                                                   Binding Settlement Zone,

   Where:

   GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Rate = Spinning Reserve Procurement Cost / Total Actual

                                            Energy Withdrawal in the Binding Settlement Zone;

   Spinning Reserve Procurement Cost =      The sum of all credits calculated under Section

                                            39.3.2A.b plus the sum of all charges/credits

                                            calculated under Section 40.3.3.3.b.iii specific to

                                            Resources providing Spinning Reserve within the

                                            Binding Settlement Zone;

   MP Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy Withdrawal = Market Participant Actual Energy

                                            Withdrawal, associated with Carved-Out GFA

                                            Actual Energy Withdrawal and including real-time

                                            Export Schedules, other than Export Schedules for

                                            External Asynchronous Resources, within the

                                            Binding Settlement Zone; and

   Total Actual Energy Withdrawal =         The sum of all Market Participant Actual Energy

                                            Withdrawals, including Carved-Out GFA Actual

                                            Energy Withdrawals and including real-time Export

                                            Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction




                                                                       Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                      37.0.0


                                             Schedules and Export Schedules for External

                                             Asynchronous Resources, within the Binding

                                             Settlement Zone; and

   MP Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Obligation = MP Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy

                                             Withdrawal divided by Total Actual Energy

                                             Withdrawal within the Binding Settlement Zone

                                             multiplied by the sum of all Spinning Reserve

                                             schedules within the Binding Settlement Zone.

   Costs allocated to Non-GFA Withdrawals:

            Spinning Reserve Charge non-GFA =       Non-GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement

                                                    Rate * MP Actual Energy Withdrawal for

                                                    the Non-Binding Settlement Zone,

   Where:

   Non-GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Rate = The difference between the Non-GFA Spinning

                                             Reserve Procurement Cost and the aggregate sum of

                                             all Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Charges

                                             divided by Total Actual Non-GFA Energy

                                             Withdrawals within the Binding Settlement Zone;

   Non-GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Cost = The sum of all credits calculated under Section

                                             39.3.2A.b plus the sum of all charges/credits

                                             calculated under Section 40.3.3.3.b.iii specific to

                                             Resources providing Spinning Reserve minus the




                                                                        Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                  SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                     37.0.0


                                              aggregate sum of the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post

                                              MCP for Spinning Reserve or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                                              Post MCP for Spinning Reserve multiplied by

   MP Actual Energy Withdrawal =              Market Participant Actual Energy Withdrawal,

                                              excluding Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy

                                              Withdrawal and including real-time Export

                                              Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction

                                              Schedules and Export Schedules for External

                                              Asynchronous Resources, within the Binding

                                              Settlement Zone; and

   Total Actual Non-GFA Energy Withdrawals = The sum of all Market Participant Actual Energy

                                              Withdrawals, excluding Carved-Out GFA Actual

                                              Energy Withdrawals and including real-time Export

                                              Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction

                                              Schedules and Export Schedules for External

                                              Asynchronous Resources, within the Binding

                                              Settlement Zone.

          B.     Non-Binding Settlement Zone Spinning Reserve Charge

          Market Participants, and Carved-Out GFA billing entities associated with Carved-Out

   GFAs, with Actual Energy Withdrawals and real-time Export Schedules, other than Coordinated

   Transaction Schedules and Export Schedules for External Asynchronous Resources, within a

   Non-Binding Settlement Zone shall be charged each Hour, a pro-rata share of the total payments




                                                                        Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                     SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                   Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                        37.0.0


   to Market Participants for Resources providing Spinning Reserve within that Non-Binding

   Settlement Zone for that Hour as follows:

   Costs allocated to Carved-Out GFAs:

            Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Charge = GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Rate

                                                       multiplied by the MP Actual Energy

                                                       Withdrawal minus the applicable Day-

                                                       Ahead Ex Post MCP for Spinning Reserve

                                                       or Hourly Real-Time Ex Post MCP for

                                                       Spinning Reserve multiplied by the

                                                       Minimum of [Spinning Reserve schedules

                                                       associated with the Carved-Out GFA, and

                                                       the MP Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve

                                                       Obligation] for the Non-Binding Settlement

                                                       Zone,

   Where:

   GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Rate = Spinning Reserve Procurement Cost / Total Actual

                                               Energy Withdraw in the Non-Binding Settlement

                                               Zone;

   Spinning Reserve Procurement Cost =         The sum of all credits calculated under Section

                                               39.3.2A.b plus the sum of all charges/credits

                                               calculated under Section 40.3.3.3.b.iii specific to




                                                                          Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                              Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                   37.0.0


                                             Resources providing Spinning Reserve within the

                                             Non-Binding Settlement Zone;

   MP Actual Energy Withdrawal =             Market Participant Actual Energy Withdrawal,

                                             associated with Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy

                                             Withdrawal and including real-time Export

                                             Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction

                                             Schedules and Export Schedules for External

                                             Asynchronous Resources, within the Non-Binding

                                             Settlement Zone;

   Total Actual Energy Withdrawal =          The sum of all Market Participant Actual Energy

                                             Withdrawals, including Carved-Out GFA Actual

                                             Energy Withdrawals and including real-time Export

                                             Schedules, other than Coordinated Transaction

                                             Schedules and Export Schedules for External

                                             Asynchronous Resources, within the Non-Binding

                                             Settlement Zone; and

   MP Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Obligation = MP Carved-Out GFA Actual Energy

                                             Withdrawal divided by Total Actual Energy

                                             Withdrawal within the Non-Binding Settlement

                                             Zone multiplied by the sum of all Spinning Reserve

                                             schedules within the Non-Binding Settlement Zone.

   Costs allocated to Non-GFA Withdrawals:




                                                                      Effective On: October 3, 2017
MISO                                                                                   SCHEDULE 5
FERC Electric Tariff                                                                 Spinning Reserve
SCHEDULES                                                                                      37.0.0


            Spinning Reserve Charge non-GFA =        Non-GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement

                                                     Rate * MP Actual Energy Withdrawal for

                                                     the Non-Binding Settlement Zone,

   Where:

   Non-GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Rate = The difference between the Non-GFA Spinning

                                             Reserve Procurement Cost and the aggregate sum of

                                             all Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Charges

                                             divided by Total Actual Non-GFA Energy

                                             Withdrawals within the Non-Binding Settlement

                                             Zone;

   Non-GFA Spinning Reserve Procurement Cost = The sum of all credits calculated under Section

                                             39.3.2A.b plus the sum of all charges/credits

                                             calculated under Section 40.3.3.3.b.iii specific to

                                             Resources providing Spinning Reserve minus the

                                             aggregate sum of the applicable Day-Ahead Ex Post

                                             MCP for Spinning Reserve or Hourly Real-Time Ex

                                             Post MCP for Spinning Reserve multiplied by the

                                             Minimum of [Spinning Reserve schedules

                                             associated with the Carved-Out GFA, and the MP

                                             Carved-Out GFA Spinning Reserve Obligation] for

                                             all GFA billing entities within the Non-Binding

                                             Settlement Zone;




                                                                        Effective On: October 3, 2017
